ABILITY
An ability is game text on a card that explains what the
card does (or can do). Several examples can be seen in
Appendix III of this Rules Reference.
• Card abilities only interact with cards that are in play,
unless the ability specifically refers to an out-of-play
area or element.
• Card abilities on hero, alter-ego, ally, upgrade, and
support cards may only be used if the card is in play,
unless the ability specifically refers to being used
from an out-of-play state. Event cards implicitly
interact with the game from an out-of-play area, as
per the rules of the event card type.
• If an ability specifies one or more targets, that ability
can only be initiated if it has at least one valid target.
For example, an ability that says "deal 5 damage to a
minion" cannot be initiated if there are no minions in
play.
» Examples of targets include but are not limited to:
"the villain," "a minion," "an enemy," "a scheme,"
"a hero," "an ally," "a character," "a player," "you,"
"a card."
• When an ability has more than one sentence of text,
read the entirety of the ability to check for alteration
effects that may change the way the ability resolves.
Then, resolve the ability one sentence at a time.
• An ability prefaced by a bold timing trigger followed
by a colon is referred to as a triggered ability. An
ability without a bold timing trigger is referred to as a
constant ability. (See below.)
• Player card abilities cannot resolve during game
setup, unless prefaced by a "Setup" timing trigger.
• The resolution of the following ability types is
mandatory: constant abilities, "Setup" abilities,
"When Revealed" abilities, "When Defeated"
abilities, "Forced Action" abilities, "Forced
Interrupt" abilities, "Forced Response" abilities,
"Boost" abilities, and keywords.
» If one of these ability types uses the word "may",
the part of the ability following "may" is optional.
• The resolution of the following ability types is
optional: "Action", "Interrupt", "Response",
"Resource". The player who controls the card that
has an optional ability determines whether or not to
use that ability at the appropriate time. Any player
can use such an ability on an encounter card, with the
following exceptions:
» Only the player who controls a player card with an
attachment that uses the word "you" or "your" can
trigger abilities or pay costs on that attachment.
» Only the player with an obligation in their play area
can trigger abilities or pay costs on that obligation.
Constant Abilities — A constant ability is any non-keyword
ability whose text contains no bold timing trigger defining its
ability type. A constant ability becomes active as soon as its
card enters play and remains active while the card is in play.
• Some constant abilities continuously seek a specific
condition (denoted by words such as "during", "if",
or "while"). The effects of such abilities are active
anytime the specific condition is met.
• If multiple instances of the same constant ability
are in play, each instance affects the game
independently.
Triggered Abilities — A triggered ability is indicated by a
bold timing trigger followed by a colon and the rest of the
ability text.
• Unless prefaced by the word "Forced", all interrupt
and response abilities are optional.
• "Forced" abilities, "When Revealed" abilities,
"When Defeated" abilities, and "When Completed"
abilities are triggered by the game at the ability’s
appropriate timing point.
• If the bold timing trigger of an ability contains the
word "Hero" or "Alter-Ego," the ability can only
be used if the player triggering the ability is in the
specified form.
• If quotation marks are used around a timing trigger
and colon, the quoted text is not itself a timing
trigger, but is instead referring to other abilities with
that trigger.
Simultaneous Timing Priority — Some abilities have
timing priority over other abilities. In order, the timing
priority of abilities with the same triggering condition is:
1. Constant abilities, delayed effects, and lasting effects.
2. Interrupts
a. Status card "Forced Interrupt" abilities.
b. "Forced Interrupt" abilities.
c. "Interrupt" abilities.
3. "Boost" and "When Revealed" abilities.
4. Responses
a. "Forced Response" abilities.
b. "Response" abilities.
5. Consequential damage.
See also: Action, Alteration Effect, "And", Cancel,
Delayed Effect, Forced, In Play and Out of Play, Initiating
Abilities, Interrupt, Labeled Ability, Lasting Effects,
Qualifiers, Replacement Effect, Resource Ability, Response,
Simultaneous Resolution, Special, Target, "Then", When
Defeated Abilities, When Revealed Abilities, "Would"

ACCELERATION ICON ()
An acceleration icon represents additional forces that are
advancing the villain’s nefarious plans.
During step one of the villain phase, place X additional
threat on the main scheme, where X is the number of
acceleration icons in play.
• Each acceleration icon is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "During the Place Threat step of the
villain phase, place 1 additional threat on the main
scheme."
• An acceleration icon can be removed from play by
defeating the encounter card it is printed on.
• Accleration icons are not considered acceleration
tokens, and vice versa.
See also: Icons, Main Scheme, Threat, Villain Phase

ACCELERATION TOKEN
Acceleration tokens are functionally
equivalent to acceleration icons (but are
not considered acceleration icons). They
are placed next to the main scheme as a
reminder to add X additional threat to the
main scheme during step one of the villain phase, where X is
the number of acceleration tokens in play.
Acceleration tokens enter play through one of two effects:
• If the encounter deck is empty, place one acceleration
token next to the main scheme.
• Card effects may instruct the players to add an
acceleration token to play.
» Acceleration tokens placed on cards other than the
main scheme still add threat to the main scheme
during step one of the villain phase.
Acceleration tokens on the main scheme cannot be
removed from play. Unlike other tokens, when a main
scheme card leaves play, the acceleration token does not
get discarded.
• Acceleration tokens placed on cards other than the
main scheme are removed from play when the card
they are placed on leaves play.
• Accleration tokens are not considered acceleration
icons, and vice versa.
See also: Component Limitations, Encounter Deck, Main
Scheme, Villain

ACTION
"Action" is a type of triggered ability. Players are permitted
to trigger action abilities during their turn, or by request
during other players’ turns.
• Players can only trigger action abilities on cards they
control or on encounter cards.
» Players cannot trigger action abilities on
obligations in other players’ play areas.
• Each "Forced Action" ability must be resolved
before the player phase can end.
» A forced action ability can be triggered at any time
a non-forced action ability could be triggered.
» If such an ability has a cost that cannot be paid
or requires one or more valid targets and has
none, the phase can end without that ability being
resolved.
See also: Ability, Player Turn, Triggered Ability

ACTIVATION
There are two types of enemy activations: an attack
activation and a scheme activation. Whenever an enemy
attacks or schemes, it is considered to have activated.
• During step two of the villain phase, the villain
activates once per player, in player order. If the
identity of the player resolving the activation is in
hero form, the villain initiates an attack against that
player’s identity. If the identity of the player resolving
the activation is in alter-ego form, the villain initiates
a scheme.
• During step two of the villain phase, each minion
engaged with a player activates against that player.
If the identity of the engaged player is in hero form,
the minion initiates an attack against that player’s
identity. If the identity of the engaged player is in
alter-ego form, the minion initiates a scheme.
• Each time the villain activates, give the villain
one boost card from the encounter deck for that
activation.
• Some card abilities can also cause enemies to attack
or scheme. These are also considered activations.
• If multiple enemies activate against you
simultaneously, resolve the villain’s activation first (if
any) in the order of your choice, followed by minion
activations in the order of your choice.
• If an activating minion leaves play, that minion’s
activation ends immediately and no further steps of
that activation resolve.
• An effect that initiates an enemy activation is
considered resolved after that activation has fully
resolved.
• If an effect initiates an activation during the
resolution of another activation, the newly initiated
activation resolves after the current activation has
finished resolving.
» If multiple activations are initiated this way, the first
player decides the order in which they are resolved.
» All abilities triggered by the initial activation
resolve before subsequent activations initiate.
See also: Boost, Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme (Enemy
Activation), Minion, Villain, Villain Phase

ACTIVE PLAYER
The player taking their turn during the player phase is the
active player.
See also: Player, Player Turn

"ADDITIONAL"
See: Alteration Effect

"AFTER"
The word "after" refers to a game occurrence that just
concluded. Many response abilities use the term "after" to
specify the time at which they can be used.
See also: Ability, Response

ALL-PURPOSE COUNTER
All-purpose counters can be used to track a
variety of different game states and statuses.
They have no inherent rules.
Card abilities can create and define a number of different
counter types, such as "arrow counters" or "web counters."
If a counter is called for, an all-purpose counter is used to
track its presence in the game.
• All-purpose counters are considered tokens for all
game purposes.
• An ability that refers to an "all-purpose counter" can
refer to any all-purpose counter, regardless of what
other types that counter might have.
• When an all-purpose counter is moved from one card
to another, it loses any previous type it had and gains
the type defined on the new card it occupies. If the
new card does not define a type, it is considered only
an "all-purpose counter."
See also: Component Limitations, Uses (X "Type")

ALLIANCE
When a player declares their intention to play a card with
the alliance keyword, any player(s) may help pay the costs
for that card.
• The alliance keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "While paying costs for this card, any
player may contribute to paying those costs."
• Only the player playing the card with the alliance
keyword is considered to be resolving that card.
See also: Cost, Initiating Abilities, Keywords

ALLY
Ally is a player card type that represents an identity’s
friends, supporters, or companions.
• If an ally enters play, it remains in play until a card
ability or game effect causes it to leave play. If an
ally’s remaining hit points are reduced to zero, it is
defeated and discarded from play.
• During a player’s turn, they may use any number of
allies they control to attack or thwart. An ally must
exhaust to attack or thwart.
• After an ally is used to attack or thwart, deal
consequential damage to that ally equal to the
number of consequential damage icons () beneath
the ally’s ATK or THW field. (If an ally attempts
to attack or thwart while stunned or confused,
respectively, that ally will not take consequential
damage.)
• If a player is attacked, any player may exhaust an ally
they control to defend against the attack. If an ally
defends against an attack, all damage from the attack
is dealt to the ally.
• Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities, and
triggered abilities that resolve from allies in play
under a player’s control are not considered to be
performed by that player’s identity.
See also: Ally Limit, Consequential Damage, Hit Points

ALLY LIMIT
Each player is permitted to control a maximum of three
allies in play at any given time. This is referred to as the
"ally limit."
A player may play or put into play allies beyond their ally
limit. However, if a player ever controls a number of allies
greater than their ally limit in play, they must immediately
choose and discard from play ally cards they control until
they have a number of allies in play equal to their ally limit.
This occurs before abilities that resolve upon entering play.
See also: Ally, Discard, Enters Play

"ALREADY"
See: Alteration Effect

ALTERATION EFFECT
An alteration effect modifies the resolution of an ability that
precedes it. Types of alteration effects include:
Additional — The word "additional" denotes a modifier to
an ability or game state. The additional modifier is resolved
simultaneously with any ability it is modifying and under the
same conditions as that ability. (For example, Repulsor Blast
reads: "Hero Action (attack): Deal 1 damage to an enemy
and discard the top 5 cards of your deck. For each printed
 resource discarded this way, deal 2 additional damage to
that enemy.")
Already — The word "already" denotes the resolution of an
alternate ability if a specific condition is met. The "already"
effect checks if this condition is met before the preceding
ability attempts to resolve. If so, the "already" effect
resolves instead. (For example, I’m Tough reads: "When
Revealed: Give Rhino a tough status card. If Rhino already
has a tough status card, this card gains surge.")
Each Time — The phrase "each time" denotes a temporary
interruption to a resolving ability. When a condition is met
that is specified by the "each time" effect, the resolution
of the preceding ability halts, the "each time" effect
resolves in its entirety, then the preceding ability continues
resolving. (For example, "You Dare Oppose Me?" reads:
"When Revealed: Discard the top 5 cards of the encounter
deck. Each time a card belonging to the Kree Fanatic set is
discarded this way, deal that card to yourself as a facedown
encounter card.")
This/That Activation/Attack/Thwart — Effects that refer
to "this" or "that" activation, attack, or thwart denote a
modifier to that activation, attack, or thwart. (Examples:
"That attack gains overkill." "Give the villain an additional
boost card for this activation.")
• If "this/that activation/attack/thwart" is part of a
condition for an effect, it does not make that effect
an alteration effect. (For example, the following is not
an alteration effect: "If this attack defeats that enemy,
heal 2 damage from your hero.")
See also: Ability, Activation, Modifiers, Replacement Effect,
Target

ALTER-EGO, ALTER-EGO FORM
See: Form, Identity

AMPLIFY ICON ()
The amplify icon represents various forces that are
empowering or bolstering the villain.
When a boost card is turned faceup during an enemy
activation, add one additional boost icon to that card for
each amplify icon in play.
• Each amplify icon is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "Each boost card gains ."
See also: Activation, Boost, Enemy, Icons

"AND"
The word "and" indicates that two or more effects within an
ability resolve simultaneously.
• Individual effects connected by "and" are not
dependent on each other. Resolve as much of each
effect as possible.
• Each effect connected by "and" can be canceled or
prevented independently.
See also: Ability, Cancel, Prevent

ARROW ICON (→)
See: Cost Arrow Icon

ASPECT CARD
Cards in the "aspect" classification are any cards that
belong to the Aggression, Justice, Leadership, and/or
Protection aspects.
• When building a player deck, a player must
choose one of the five aspects (Aggression,
Justice, Leadership, Protection, or ‘Pool) to use for
customization. The remainder of their deck (the
portion not allocated to their identity-specific cards)
can then be customized with cards that belong to the
chosen aspect.
• A card’s aspect is designated by the aspect’s name
printed at the bottom of the card in its deckbuilding
classification area.
See also: Basic Card, Classifications, Identity-Specific Card,
Appendix I: Deck Customization

ASSAULT
When a character makes a basic thwart against a scheme
with the assault keyword, that character uses its ATK instead
of its THW.
• The assault keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "While a character is making a basic
thwart against this scheme, that character uses its
ATK instead of its THW."
• If the thwarting character is an ally, it takes the
consequential damage listed under its ATK instead of
its THW after the thwart.
• Abilities that increase a character’s "basic power" can
be used to increase that character’s ATK when that
character thwarts a scheme with assault.
See also: Consequential Damage, Keywords

ATK
See: Attack (Player Ability Type), Basic Power

ATTACHMENT
Attachment is an encounter card type.
When an attachment enters play, it attaches to another card
or game element.
• If an attachment attaches to a character, it may
modify that character’s ATK, SCH, and/or THW values,
as indicated by the values in the associated fields on
the attachment card.
» If an attachment has a "SCH/THW" modifier, it
modifies the attached character’s SCH if that
character is a villain or minion, and modifies the
attached character’s THW if that character is a hero
or ally.
» If an attachment modifies a value the attached
character does not have or for which that character
has a dash (–) as a value, that modifier is ignored.
(For example, if an attachment gives an alter-ego
"+1 ATK," that alter-ego does not get 1 ATK.)
• When an attachment attached to a player card uses
the word "you" or "your," it refers to the attached
player card’s controller.
» Only the player who controls the card to which that
attachment is attached can trigger abilities or pay
costs on that attachment.
See also: Attach To, Dash (Value), Encounter Card, Enters
Play, Game Element, Permanent

ATTACH TO
If a card uses the phrase "attach to", it must be attached to
(placed beneath and slightly overlapped by) the specified
game element as it enters play.
• Once a card is attached, it remains in play until either
the element it is attached to leaves play, in which case
the attached card is discarded, or an ability or game
effect causes the attached card to leave play.
• An attached card exhausts and readies independently
of the game element it is attached to.
• The "attach to" phrase is checked for legality when
the card would be attached to a game element, but it
is not checked again after it is attached. If the initial
"attach to" check does not pass, the card is not able
to be attached, so it remains in its prior state or game
area. If such a card cannot remain in its prior state or
game area, discard it.
» The "attach to" phrase on a card is not resolved
if another ability causes that card to attach to a
specific game element.
See also: Attachment, Game Element, Upgrade

ATTACK (ENEMY ACTIVATION)
An attack is a type of enemy activation. When an enemy
initiates an attack, it targets a specific player, then resolves
that attack against that player.
• Enemy attacks are always initiated against both a
player and a character.
» Normally the attacked character is the player’s
hero, but abilities can instead cause an enemy to
attack a player’s alter-ego or an ally that player
controls. In all of these cases, the player is still
considered attacked.
» If a character other than the attacked character
defends the attack, that character becomes the
new target of that attack.
» If a player other than the attacked player defends
the attack with a character they control, that player
becomes the new target of that attack.
» Abilities that trigger "When/After [enemy] attacks
you" are resolved when/after a player is attacked,
regardless of which character they control was
attacked. (For example, Ultron I reads: "Forced
Response: After Ultron attacks you, choose to
either place 1 threat on the main scheme or put the
top card of your deck into play facedown, engaged
with you as a drone minion." This effect resolves
against the attacked player regardless of if that
player used an ally to defend the attack.)
To resolve an enemy attack, follow these steps:
1. Give boost card: If a villain, or a minion with the
villainous keyword, is attacking, give it one facedown
boost card from the encounter deck. (If a minion
without the villainous keyword is attacking, skip this
step.)
2. Declare defender: If a player wishes to defend, that
player exhausts a hero or ally as the defender.
» The defending character becomes the target
character for the attack.
» If a player other than the target player defends, the
defending player becomes the target player for the
attack.
3. Flip boost cards: Flip and resolve each of the attacking
enemy’s boost cards, one at a time and in the order in
which they were dealt, by doing the following:
a. Flip the boost card faceup.
b. Resolve any "Boost" abilities, indicated by the star
icon in the boost area. (All other abilities on the
boost card are ignored.)
c. Increase the attacking enemy’s ATK value by one
for each boost icon on the card.
d. Discard the boost card.
e. If the enemy has any boost cards remaining, repeat
these steps with the next boost card.
4. Calculate damage: Determine how much damage will
be dealt by the attack.
» The base damage is equal to the attacking enemy’s
ATK, including modifiers from abilities in play and
boost icons resolved for the attack.
» If a hero has been declared the defender of the
attack, reduce the amount of damage dealt by that
hero’s DEF value.
5. Deal damage: Deal the amount of damage calculated
in the previous step, based on the following:
• If a hero was declared the defender of the attack,
the damage from the attack is dealt to that hero.
» The defending hero is considered to have been
attacked.
» If a hero with a tough status makes a basic defense,
the damage is first reduced by that hero’s DEF
value. If the damage is reduced to 0, the hero
keeps their tough status.
• If an ally was declared the defender of the attack,
all damage from the attack is dealt to the ally. (If the
ally is defeated by the attack, additional damage
does not carry over to the identity.)
» The defending ally is considered to have been
attacked.
» If the defending ally leaves play prior to damage
from the attack being dealt, the attack is
considered to have no character defending and the
identity of that ally’s controller becomes the target
of the attack.
• If no character was declared the defender of the
attack, the attack is considered undefended. All
damage from the attack is dealt to the character
targeted by the attack.
» The targeted character is considered to have been
attacked.
6. The attack finishes resolving and the following types of
abilities trigger in order:
a. Forced abilities (such as the retaliate keyword) with
the following triggers (in any order):
» "after [character] attacks [and damages/defeats]
[you/an ally]..."
» "after [character] is attacked..."
» "after [character] defends [and takes no
damage]..."
» "after [character] [takes/deals] damage..."
b. Non-forced abilities with the triggers listed above.
These rules also apply to enemy attacks:
• Interrupts that trigger "when [enemy name] attacks"
have the same timing as interrupts that trigger "when
[the villain/an enemy] initiates an attack."
• If an enemy attack ends before damage is dealt,
abilities that trigger after an attack or after a
character defends an attack resolve as normal.
• Abilities that trigger when an enemy "attacks and
damages" or "attacks and defeats" a character
trigger only when that character is damaged/defeated
by damage from the attack itself, and not by an ability
that resolves during the attack.
» For example, Sonic Converter reads: "Forced
Response: After Klaw attacks and damages a
character, stun that character." If Klaw is given a
boost ability that says "Boost: Deal 1 damage to
each hero," that boost ability does not trigger the
ability on the Sonic Converter.
See also: Activation, Ally, Attacks Against Allies, Boost,
Damage, Defend, Enemy, Identity, Minion, Modifiers,
Retaliate X, Target, Villain, Villainous

ATTACK (PLAYER ABILITY TYPE)
Some game effects and card abilities reference an attack.
There are a few different ways an attack can occur:
• A hero or ally can use their basic attack power to
attack an enemy. A character must exhaust to use this
power. This deals damage equal to the character’s
ATK value to the enemy.
» A character can only initiate a basic attack if there
is an enemy that can be attacked by that character
or if that character is stunned.
» An ability that allows a hero or ally to "make a basic
attack without exhausting" can allow an exhausted
character to make a basic attack.
• If a triggered ability is labeled as an attack—such
as "Hero Action (attack)"—resolving that ability is
considered to attack the specified target. Unless
specified by the ability’s text, a hero does not exhaust
when using such an ability.
» An ability labeled as an attack is considered a
single attack, even if that attack deals multiple
instances of damage.
» When an attack ability has its damage increased
by another ability, each instance of damage in
that attack ability that does not use the word
"additional" is increased by the specified amount.
• If an ability says "Make the following X attacks in
order," followed by two or more instances of damage,
each of those instances is considered a separate
attack.
» An ability that increases the damage of an attack
only increases the damage of one of that ability’s
attacks, though such an ability can be triggered
separately for each attack.
• Hero and ally attacks can target any enemy, unless a
card ability (such as guard) is preventing that enemy
from being attacked.
• When an attack targets multiple enemies, the
attacking character is considered to have attacked
each of those enemies.
» Each attacked enemy with the retaliate X keyword
that is still in play after the attack resolves deals its
retaliate damage to the attacking character.
• The order of resolution for abilities triggered by the
resolution of an attack is as follows:
7. Forced abilities (such as the retaliate keyword) with
the following triggers (in any order):
» "after [character] attacks [and damages/defeats]
[an enemy/a minion]..."
» "after [character] is attacked..."
8. Non-forced abilities with the triggers listed above.
9. Consequential damage (for allies).
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Damage, Defend, Enemy,
Identity, Labeled Ability, Minion, Modifiers, Retaliate X,
Target, Villain

ATTACKS AGAINST ALLIES
Some effects cause a villain or minion to attack an ally
directly. When this occurs, any undefended damage from
that attack is placed on the ally that was attacked.
• The player who controls the ally is considered the
attacked player.
» Abilities that resolve while/when/after the attacking
enemy "attacks you" resolve against the attacked
player.
» Any boost abilities that refer to "you" refer to the
player who controls the attacked ally.
• Players may defend these attacks as normal by
declaring a hero or an ally as the defender.
• If the attack has overkill and defeats an ally (whether
that ally was the attacked ally or a defending ally),
any excess damage from that attack is dealt to the
identity of the player who controlled the defeated
ally.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Defend, Target

BASE VALUE
A defined value before modifiers are applied. In most cases,
it is also the printed value.
See also: Modifiers, Printed

BASIC CARD
Cards in the "Basic" classification are cards that are not
associated with a specific identity or aspect.
• When building a deck, a player may customize the
remainder of their deck (the portion not allocated to
their identity-specific cards) using basic cards.
• A card is designated as basic if it has the word
"Basic" printed at the bottom of the card in its
deckbuilding classification area.
• Basic cards are not aspect cards.
See also: Aspect Card, Classifications, Identity-Specific
Card, Appendix I: Deck Customization

BASIC POWER
A basic power is a statistic that allows a character to
perform a certain game function.
• There are five different basic powers:
» Attack power (ATK) can be used by a character to
perform a basic attack and deal damage to another
character. Generally, heroes, allies, villains, and
minions have attack power.
» Thwart power (THW) can be used by a character
to perform a basic thwart and remove threat from
a scheme. Generally, heroes and allies have thwart
power.
» Defense power (DEF) can be used by a character
to perform a basic defense and prevent damage
from an attack. Generally, only heroes have defense
power.
» Recovery power (REC) can be used by a character
to perform a basic recovery and heal damage from
themself. Generally, only alter-egos have recovery
power.
» Scheme power (SCH) can be used by a character
to perform a basic scheme and place threat on the
main scheme. Generally, villains and minions have
scheme power.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Ability Type), Defend, Identity, Minion, Modifiers, Recover,
Recovery, Scheme (Enemy Activation), Thwart

BOOST, BOOST ICON ()
Each time the villain attacks or schemes,
the villain is given one facedown card
from the encounter deck, as a boost
card. Minions with the villainous keyword
are also given a boost card when they
activate.
During the activation (and after any defenders are declared
if the villain is attacking), each boost card on the enemy
is turned face up one at a time. Add the number of boost
icons on each card to the enemy’s ATK value (if it is
attacking) or SCH value (if it is scheming) for that activation.
Boost icons are located at the bottom-right of the card.
If the boost field has a star icon, it indicates that the card
has a "Boost" ability. Refer to the card’s text box and
resolve the "Boost" ability when the card is turned face up.
The "Boost" ability is located beneath the divider line in the
text box.
• A star icon is not itself considered a boost icon, and
does not contribute to the villain’s ATK or SCH value.
• Only the ability text beneath the divider line is active
on a card that is resolving as a boost card.
• Damage dealt by a boost ability is not considered to
be damage dealt by the activation during which the
boost ability resolved.
• If additional boost cards are resolved for an
activation, the boost icons are cumulative, and all
"Boost" abilities on those cards resolve.
• After applying a boost card to an activation, discard it.
• If an enemy is dealt a boost card outside of its own
activation, that boost card remains facedown on that
enemy until that enemy activates.
» If that enemy is a villain or a minion with the
villainous keyword, it still gets dealt another boost
card at the start of its activation as normal.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme (Enemy
Activation), Star Icon, Villainous

CAMPAIGN MODE
See: Modes of Play

CAMPAIGN-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "campaign-specific" classification are cards
that belong to a campaign’s set of accompanying cards.
• Campaign-specific cards can only be used during a
campaign from the same product (determined by that
product’s set icon).
• A campaign’s rules determine how players utilize
campaign-specific cards within that campaign.
• A campaign-specific card is designated by the word
"Campaign" printed at the bottom of the card in its
encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Modes of Play

CANCEL
Some card abilities can cancel card or game effects.
• Cancel abilities interrupt the initiation of effects and
prevent them from resolving.
• Anytime the effects of an ability are canceled, the
ability (apart from its effects) is still regarded as
initiated, and any costs are still paid. Only the effects
are prevented from initiating, and do not resolve.
• If the effects of an event card are canceled, the card
is still considered played, and it is discarded.
• If the effects of a treachery card are canceled, the
card is still regarded as revealed, and it is still placed
in the encounter discard pile.
• Cancel effects are considered a subtype of
replacement effect, with the canceled effect being
replaced with no effect.
» Abilities dependent on the canceled effect cannot
trigger as the canceled effect is not considered to
have occurred.
See also: Ability, Replacement Effect

"CANNOT"
The word "cannot" is absolute and cannot be
countermanded by other abilities or effects.
• If two abilities conflict, the ability with "cannot" takes
precedence.
• If two rules conflict, the rule with "cannot" takes
precedence.
• An ability can override a rule with "cannot" per the
Golden Rules.
See also: The Golden Rules, Target

© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 100

ENCOUNTER GROUP (XX/XX) ATTACHMENT
Attach to Rhino.
Hero Action: Spend   
resources → discard this card.

WEAPON.

RHINO (8/21)
enhanCed ivoRy hoRn

ATK
 
+1
Boost Icons
1

CARD ABILITY
See: Ability

CARD TYPES
A card’s card type denotes various rules and game functions
associated with that card.
• Ally, event, identity, player side scheme, resource,
support, and upgrade cards are types of player cards.
• Attachment, environment, main scheme, minion,
obligation, side scheme, treachery, and villain cards
are types of encounter cards.
• If an ability causes a card to change its card type,
it loses all other card types it might possess and
functions as would any card of the new card type.
» Any cards attached to a card that changes type
remain attached, but only those abilities that refer
to the new card type remain active. (For example,
if an ally’s card type is changed to minion, an
upgrade attached that says "attached ally gets
+1 ATK" would no longer provide that ally-turnedminion with bonus ATK, but an attachment that
says "attached character cannot attack" would still
apply because minions are also characters.)
» An ally that has been changed to a minion engages
its controller and does not take consequential
damage after it attacks or schemes.
» When a player changes a minion to an ally, that
player takes control of that ally.
See also: Ally, Attachment, Encounter Card, Environment,
Event, Identity, Main Scheme, Minion, Obligation, Player
Card, Player Side Scheme, Resource Card, Side Scheme,
Support, Treachery, Upgrade, Villain, Appendix III:
Card Anatomy

CHARACTER
Identities (heroes and alter-egos), allies, villains, and minions
are all characters.
See also: Ally, Identity, Minion, Villain

CHOOSE (GAME ELEMENT)
The phrase "choose a [game element]" (such as an ally, a
minion, or a scheme) indicates that a player must select a
game element that meets the specific requirements of an
ability.
• The player resolving the ability that uses the word
"choose" is the player who makes the choice
specified by the card.
• If a player card ability requires the choosing of one or
more targets, and there are no valid targets for any
part of the ability, the ability cannot be initiated.
• If multiple targets are required to be chosen by the
same player, simultaneously choose as many as are
available, to a maximum of the specified number.
» The same target cannot be chosen multiple times
this way.
• An effect that can choose "any number" of targets
does not successfully resolve if zero of those targets
are chosen.
See also: Ability, Game Element, Player, Target

CHOOSE (OPTION)
Some abilities instruct a player to choose between multiple
options. For example, "Choose to either take 1 damage or
discard 1 card from your hand."
• When an encounter card requires a player to choose
an option, they cannot choose an option that requires
one or more targets if there are no valid targets for
that option.
• When a player card requires a player to choose an
option, they cannot choose an option that cannot be
at least partially resolved. This includes options that:
» Have a cost the player cannot pay.
» Require one or more targets and there are no valid
targets.
• When a card requires a player to choose multiple
options from a list, that player cannot choose the
same option multiple times.
See also: Ability, Player, Target

CLASSIFICATIONS
A card’s classification is the group that a card belongs to as
determined by its specific attributes.
• Cards in the "identity-specific" classification are cards
that belong to an identity’s set of accompanying
cards. (See: Identity-Specific Card)
• Cards in the "aspect" classification are cards that
belong to the Aggression, Justice, Leadership,
Protection, and/or ‘Pool aspects. (See: Aspect Card)
• Cards in the "Basic" classification are not associated
with a specific identity or aspect. (See: Basic Card)
• Cards in the "scenario-specific" classification are
cards that belong to a scenario’s set of accompanying
cards. (See: Scenario-Specific Card)
• Cards in the "modular encounter set" or "modular
set" classification are cards that belong to a modular
set of encounter cards. (See: Modular Encounter Set)
• Cards in the "campaign-specific" classification are
cards that can only be used during a campaign from
the same product. (See: Campaign-Specific Card)
• Cards in the "Standard" classification are cards that
are added to most scenarios. (See: Modes of Play,
Standard Set)
• Cards in the "Expert" classification are cards that are
added to scenarios when playing expert mode. (See:
Expert Set, Modes of Play)

CONFUSE, CONFUSED
Confuse is a status that cancels a character’s next scheme
or thwart.
• A confused status card resolves like the triggered
ability: "Forced Interrupt: When this character would
scheme or thwart, remove each confused status card
from it instead."
• If an ability "confuses" a character, give that character
a confused status card.
• A character is confused if it has a confused status
card.
» A character with the steady keyword is confused
only if it has two confused status cards.
• If a character has an ability stating that it "cannot be
confused," confused status cards cannot be placed
on that character.
• If a confused identity or ally attempts to thwart or use
a thwart ability, discard the confused card instead.
Costs associated with the thwart attempt, including
exhausting the character, must still be paid.
» A confused character can attempt to thwart or use
a thwart ability even if it has no valid target for a
thwart.
• If a confused villain or minion would scheme, discard
the confused status card instead.
• As the thwart action or scheme activation was
replaced by the removal of the confused status card,
that character is not considered to have thwarted or
schemed.
See also: Ally, Cancel, Identity, Minion, Status Cards,
Target, Villain

CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE ()
After an ally attacks, it takes consequential damage equal to
the number of consequential damage icons () beneath its
ATK field.
After an ally thwarts, it takes consequential damage equal
to the number of consequential damage icons () beneath
its THW field.
• Consequential damage is dealt to an ally after
resolving abilities that are triggered by the ally
attacking or thwarting.
• If the target of an ally’s basic power leaves play
before that ally deals damage equal to its ATK or
removes threat equal to its THW, the ally does not
take consequential damage (but still exhausts).
» That ally is not considered to have attacked or
thwarted for the purpose of other abilities.
» For example, Iron Fist’s ability reads: "Interrupt:
When Iron Fist attacks an enemy, remove 1 mystic
counter from him → stun that enemy and deal
1 damage to it." If this effect defeats the enemy
Iron Fist was attacking, the basic attack aborts as
soon as the target leaves play, so Iron Fist does not
take consequential damage from it.
See also: Ally, Attack (Player Ability Type), Basic Power,
Damage, Icons, Thwart

CONSTANT ABILITY
See: Ability

CONTROL
See: Ownership and Control

COPY
A copy of a card is defined by title. A second copy of a card
is any other card that shares the same title and subtitle (if
any), regardless of card’s type, text, artwork, or any other
differing characteristics between the cards.
See also: Card Types, Subtitle

COST
A card’s resource cost is the numerical value that must be
paid to play the card. Some abilities have a cost described
in the ability text that must be paid to use the ability.
• A cost arrow icon (→) in ability text distinguishes a
cost from an effect, in a "pay cost → resolve effect"
format.
» Text indicating the timing of an interrupt or
response trigger that precedes a cost arrow is not
considered part of the cost.
• A resource cost with the per-player icon () is
multiplied by the number of players who started the
scenario.
» If a cost with the per-player icon is reduced, the
total cost of the card is reduced, not the value that
is multiplied by the number of players.
• To pay a resource cost, a player spends resources that
they generate by discarding cards from their hand or
by using "Resource" card abilities.
» Resources generated to pay for an ability on a card
are considered to have been paid for that card.
• While paying a cost, a player is permitted to generate
resources beyond the specified cost.
» Resources generated beyond the specified cost are
considered to have been overpaid for that cost and
were not paid for that cost.
» Any resources that are generated beyond the
specified cost are lost after paying that cost.
• If multiple costs for a single card or ability require
payment, those costs must be paid simultaneously.
» A player generating resources for those costs
chooses how to divide those resources between
those costs. (For example, a player paying costs
for an event with a resource cost of 1 and an ability
that reads "Hero Action: Spend X  resouces →..."
can spend a resource card that generates  
resources and use one of those icons to pay for the
card’s resource cost and the other to pay for the
cost before the arrow.)
• An ability’s cost cannot be paid if that ability’s effect
requires one or more targets and there is not at least
one valid target.
• While a player is paying a cost, that player must pay
costs with cards and/or game elements they control.
» If a cost uses the word "choose," the player can
choose targets they do not control.
» If a cost targets a "friendly" card, the player can
target cards they do not control.
• If a cost requires a game element that is not in
play, the player paying the cost may only use game
elements that are in their own out-of-play areas.
• A cost requiring "any number" or "up to" some
number of game elements requires a minimum of one
such game element.
• Some card abilities may reference an "additional
cost." A player must pay all additional costs
simultaneously with the cost that is being added to,
even if multiple cards or abilities are adding separate
additional costs. A player cannot pay the original
cost or any of the additional costs individually; if they
cannot pay for all of the costs at once, then they do
not pay any of the costs and the effect associated
with the costs does not occur.
• If dealing damage is a cost, that cost is considered
paid even if some or all of that damage is prevented.
• If taking damage is a cost, that cost is not considered
paid unless all of that damage was taken. (If any of
the damage is prevented, then the cost has not been
paid.)
See also: Ability, Cost Arrow Icon, Game Element, Initiating
Abilities, Keywords

COST ARROW ICON (→)
A cost arrow icon (→) in ability text distinguishes a cost from
an effect, in a "pay cost → resolve effect" format. Nonbolded text before the cost arrow icon must be paid and/or
resolved in full before the text after the cost arrow icon can
be resolved.
• Responses to the text preceding the cost arrow icon
resolve before the text following the icon resolves.
See also: Cost, Icons

COUNTER
See: All-Purpose Counter

CRISIS ICON ()
While at least one crisis icon is in play, threat cannot be
removed from the main scheme by player cards.
• Each crisis icon is equivalent to the following constant
ability: "Player cards cannot remove threat from the
main scheme."
• Abilities on encounter cards are not affected by the
crisis icon.
See also: Main Scheme, Threat

DAMAGE
Damage reduces a character’s hit points.
If a character has zero or fewer remaining
hit points, it is defeated.
• Damage on an identity or villain is tracked by a hit
point dial. If such a character takes damaged, reduce
its dial by the amount of damage that it took.
• Damage on an ally or minion is tracked by damage
tokens. If such a character takes damage, place the
specified value of damage tokens on the character.
• When damage is dealt to a character, that character
takes damage.
» When the amount of damage an effect deals is
modified, the amount of damage the character
takes is similarly modified.
» When the amount of damage a character takes is
modified (such as by damage being prevented), the
amount of damage dealt is not modified.
» The order of resolution for effects surrounding the
dealing and taking of damage are as follows:
1. Abilities that trigger "when [character] would
deal/be dealt any amount of damage..."
2. Tough status cards.
3. Abilities that trigger "when [character] would
take any amount of damage..."
4. Abilities that trigger "when [character] takes any
amount of damage..."
5. Placing of damage on the character.
6. Abilities that trigger "when [character] would be
defeated..."
7. Abilities that trigger "when [character] is
defeated..." (including "When Defeated"
abilities).
8. Discarding of a defeated character.
9. Abilities that trigger "after [character] deals/is
dealt/takes any amount of damage..." or "after
[character] defeats/is defeated..."
See also: Component Limitations, Defeat, Hit Points, Indirect
Damage, Move, Prevent, Tough
1

DASH (VALUE)
A value presented as a dash (–) indicates that value cannot
be used.
• If a card has a dash (–) as its cost value, that card
cannot be played and can only enter play through
other means.
• If a character’s power (ATK, DEF, REC, SCH, and
THW) has a dash (–) as the value, the character cannot
exhaust to use that power.
• If a game step or card ability references a value of
dash (–), that value is treated as an unmodifiable
0. (For example, if an ability targets "the ally with
the lowest SCH," an ally with a dash for its SCH is
considered to have the same SCH as an ally with
a SCH of 0.)
See also: Basic Power, Non-Numerical Variable

DEAL, DEAL AN ENCOUNTER CARD
During step three of the villain phase, each player is dealt
one facedown encounter card.
If a card ability instructs a player to be dealt an encounter
card, the player takes the top card of the encounter deck
and places it facedown in front of them. This card is not
revealed at this time. This card is added to the queue of
cards that player resolves during the villain phase.
• If a player is dealt an encounter card during step
three or four of the villain phase, the extra encounter
card is added to the queue of cards that are being
dealt and revealed in those same steps.
See also: Ability, Encounter Card, Encounter Deck, Player,
Villain Phase

DECK
There are four main types of decks that appear in a game:
the player deck, the encounter deck, the villain deck, and
the main scheme deck. Certain identities or scenarios may
add other decks to the game.
• The order of cards within a deck cannot be altered
unless a player is instructed to do so by a game step,
game function, or card ability.
See also: Encounter Deck, Main Scheme, Player Deck,
Villain

DECK CUSTOMIZATION
See: Appendix I: Deck Customization

DEF
See: Basic Power, Defend

DEFEAT
If a character has zero or fewer remaining hit points, or if a
side scheme has no threat on it, it is defeated.
• If an ally, minion, or side scheme is defeated, it is
discarded.
• If an identity or stage of the villain is defeated, it is
removed from the game.
See also: Ally, Hit Points, Minion, Player, Player Elimination,
Removed from the Game, Side Scheme, Villain, Villain
Defeat

DEFEND, DEFENSE
During an enemy attack, a player may defend against that
attack using cards they control.
• Only one player at a time can defend against an
enemy attack. While a player is defending, other
players cannot defend against that same attack.
• A hero can use their basic defense power to defend
against an enemy attack. A hero must exhaust to
use this power. The amount of damage dealt by
the attack is reduced by the hero’s DEF value, and
any remaining damage is dealt to that hero. While a
hero is defending against an attack, other friendly
characters cannot defend against that attack.
» When a card ability says to "declare [a hero] the
defender" of an attack, that hero is considered to
be making a basic defense.
» A card ability that allows a hero to be declared as
a defender without exhausting can be used on an
exhausted hero.
• An ally can exhaust to defend against an enemy
attack. Damage from the attack is dealt to that ally.
While an ally is defending against an attack, other
friendly characters cannot defend against that attack.
» When an ally defends an attack, that ally becomes
the target character for that attack, and its
controller becomes the target player for that attack.
» When a card ability says to "declare [an ally] the
defender" of an attack, that ally becomes the
defender of the attack.
» A card ability that allows an ally to be declared as
a defender without exhausting can be used on an
exhausted ally.
• When a player initiates a triggered ability labeled as
a defense—such as "Hero Interrupt (defense)"—
during an enemy attack, that player’s identity
becomes the defender and is considered to have
defended the attack if there is not already a defender.
» The player’s identity is considered to be the
defender as soon as the defense-labeled ability
begins resolving.
» Abilities that trigger "when your hero defends
against an attack" can be triggered when resolving
a defense-labeled ability.
1
» Resolving a defense-labeled ability is not a basic
defense and does not cause a hero to reduce the
amount of damage dealt by that hero’s DEF. That
hero can still be declared the defender of the
attack during the "Declare Defender" step or by
another card ability.
» Unless specified by the ability’s text, a hero does
not exhaust when using a defense-labeled ability.
» The defending player may resolve any number of
defense abilities during an enemy attack (as long as
the triggering conditions of those abilities are met).
» Once a player resolves a defense-labeled ability
during an enemy attack, other players cannot
resolve defense-labeled abilities for that same
attack.
» Defense-labeled abilities can be played during
an attack by a player whose ally is defending that
attack. In that case, the player’s identity does not
become the defender.
» A player can trigger abilities labeled as a defense
outside of an attack if the ability’s triggering
condition is met. When triggered this way,
the player’s identity is not considered to have
defended an attack.
• If a player defends against an enemy attack that
targets a different player (either by defending with
a character they control or by resolving a defense
ability), the defending player becomes the new target
of that attack.
» Any triggered ability that refers to "you" refers to
the player who was the target of the attack when
that ability resolved. (For example, the "you" in
an ability that triggers "when [enemy] attacks
you" refers to the player against whom the attack
initiated, while the "you" in an ability that triggers
"after [enemy] attacks you" refers to the player
whose character defended the attack.)
» Any constant or boost abilities that refer to "you"
refer to the defending player.
• If no character is used to defend against an enemy
attack, that attack is considered undefended.
Additionally, if a defending ally is defeated before
damage from the attack is dealt (such as through a
"Boost" ability), the attack is considered undefended.
• Abilities that trigger after a character defends an
attack resolve after that attack ends.
» If an effect causes a defended attack to end before
fully resolving, the attack is still considered to have
been defended.
» If an ability triggers after a character uses a basic
power, that ability triggers after an attack in which
a character made a basic defense resolves.
See also: Ability, Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Damage,
"Friendly", Identity, Labeled Ability, Player

DELAYED EFFECT
Some abilities contain delayed effects. Such abilities specify
a future timing point, or indicate a future condition that may
arise, and dictate an effect that is to happen at that time.
• Delayed effects resolve automatically and
immediately after their specified timing point or
future condition occurs or becomes true, and before
responses to that point or condition may be used.
» Delayed effects have the same timing priority as
constant effects.
• When a delayed effect resolves, it is not treated as a
new triggered ability, even if the delayed effect was
originally created by a triggered ability.
See also: Ability

DISCARD
Discarding is the act of attempting to move a card from
a non-discard-pile play area to a discard pile.
• If a player card is discarded, it is placed faceup on top
of the owning player’s discard pile.
• If an encounter card is discarded, it is placed faceup
on top of the encounter discard pile.
• If multiple cards are discarded from a player’s hand
or from play by a singular effect, place those cards in
the appropriate discard pile in any order.
• If multiple cards are discarded from a deck by a
singular effect, place those cards in the appropriate
discard pile one at a time (without changing the
order).
» These discards are considered simultaneous.
» Responses to the discarding of any of those cards
are resolved after all discards are made.
• If a player looks at a number of cards from the top
of a deck and discards one or more of those cards,
those cards are considered to have been discarded
from the top of that deck.
See also: Discard Pile, Encounter Card, In Play and Out of
Play, Ownership and Control, Player Card, Shuffle

DISCARD PILE
A discard pile is an out-of-play area that contains cards that
have been discarded throughout the game.
• Each player has their own discard pile, and the
encounter deck has its own discard pile.
• Each discard pile is open information, and may be
looked at by any player at any time.
• The order of cards in a discard pile may not be
changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
card ability.
• Any ability that would shuffle a discard pile of zero
cards back into a deck does not shuffle the deck.
See also: Discard, In Play and Out of Play, Ownership and
Control, Player, Shuffle

DOUBLE-SIDED CARD
A card is double-sided if neither of its sides has a card back
(player, villain, or encounter).
• When a double-sided card would enter an out-of-play
area other than the victory display or set-aside area, it
is removed from the game.
• If a double-sided card has "Standard Mode Only"
and "Expert Mode Only" sides, it is put into play
with the "Expert Mode Only" side faceup if the
players are playing expert mode. Otherwise, the card
is put into play with the "Standard Mode Only" side
faceup.
See also: Encounter Card, In Play and Out of Play, Player
Card, Victory X, Villain

DRAW, DRAWING CARDS
If a player is instructed to draw one or more cards, those
cards are drawn from the top of their deck one at a time.
• Drawn cards are added to a player’s hand.
• Each player’s hand size is checked at the end of the
player phase. If a player has more cards in their hand
than their hand size value at this time, they must
choose and discard cards from hand until they are at
their hand size.
See also: Discard, In Play and Out of Play, Ownership and
Control, Player, Player Deck, Player Phase

"EACH PLAYER"
When each player is instructed to resolve an effect, each
player resolves that effect one at a time.
• If the effect does not specify what order the players
resolve the effect in, the first player decides the
order.
• If a player cannot fully resolve that effect, they resolve
it as fully as possible. For example, if each player
is instructed to discard a certain number of cards
from the encounter deck and the deck empties while
one player is discarding from it, that player stops
discarding as soon as the deck is emptied. After the
deck is reset (and an acceleration token is placed
next to the main scheme deck), the remaining players
resume discarding from it.
See also: Choose (Game Element), Player

"EACH TIME"
See: Alteration Effect

EFFECT
See: Ability, Cost

EMPTY DECK
See: Encounter Deck, Player Deck

 ENCOUNTER CARD
There are eight encounter card types: attachment cards,
environment cards, minion cards, main scheme cards,
obligation cards, side scheme cards, treachery cards, and
villain cards.
• Encounter cards belong to various classifications,
such as scenario-specific encounter cards or modular
set encounter cards.
• Most encounter cards have an orange card back.
See also: Attachment, Classifications, Environment, Main
Scheme, Minion, Obligation, Side Scheme, Treachery,
Villain, Appendix I: Deck Customization

ENCOUNTER DECK
The encounter deck contains the encounter cards
(attachments, environments, minions, side schemes, and
treacheries) that players can face during a scenario.
• The order of cards within the encounter deck cannot
be changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
game step, game function, or card ability.
If the encounter deck is empty, the encounter discard pile is
immediately shuffled to create a new encounter deck. When
this occurs, place an acceleration token next to the main
scheme deck.
• If a card ability discards a specified number of
cards from the encounter deck or until a card with
specific criteria is discarded, discard cards from the
encounter deck until the discard condition is met or
the encounter deck is empty. If the encounter deck is
emptied this way, that card ability is considered to be
fulfilled. Do not continue the discard effect with the
newly shuffled encounter deck.
• If the encounter deck empties during the resolution
of any other type of game effect (for example, the
dealing of encounter cards), that effect finishes
resolving after the encounter deck has been reset.
• If there are no cards in both the encounter deck and
the encounter discard pile simultaneously (such as
all cards from the encounter deck being in play),
an infinite loop occurs with an infinite number of
acceleration tokens being placed next to the main
scheme deck. If this happens, the players lose.
See also: Acceleration Token, Attachment, Choose (Game
Element), Discard, Discard Pile, Environment, Minion, Side
Scheme, Treachery

ENCOUNTER DISCARD PILE
See: Discard Pile

ENCOUNTER SET
An encounter set is a grouping of encounter cards.
• There are four types of encounter sets: scenariospecific encounter sets, modular encounter sets, the
Standard set, and the Expert set.
• Encounter sets with the same name but different set
icons are considered distinct sets.
See also: Classifications, Expert Set, Modular Encounter
Set, Scenario-Specific Card, Standard Set

END OF PLAYER PHASE
To end the player phase, perform the following steps:
1. In player order, each player may discard any number of
cards from their hand, and must discard down to their
hand size if they have more cards than their hand size.
2. Each player simultaneously draws up to their hand size.
3. Each player simultaneously readies all of their cards.
Ready each exhausted encounter card.
4. Any effects that last "until the end of the [player]
phase" end.
5. Resolve any "when/after the [player] phase ends"
effects.
See also: Discard, Draw, Hand Size, Lasting Effects, Player,
Player Phase, Player Turn, Ready

ENEMY
An enemy is a minion or villain.
When used as a descriptor, "enemy" refers to game
elements that belong to the scenario: "enemy cards",
"enemy abilities" etc.
See also: Game Element, Minion, Villain

ENEMY ACTIVATION
See: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme (Enemy
Activation)

ENEMY ATTACKS
See: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation)

ENEMY SCHEMES
See: Activation, Scheme (Enemy Activation)

ENERGY RESOURCE ()
An energy resource () is one of the four types of resources.
• Energy resources can be spent to pay the resource
cost of cards and abilities.
• Some card abilities specifically require energy
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Icons, Mental Resource, Physical
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource

ENGAGE
When a minion enters play in a player’s play area, it engages
that player.
Unless otherwise specified by the minion or by the effect
that put the minion into play, the minion engages the player
who is resolving the current encounter card.
• An engaged minion remains engaged with the same
player until it is defeated, removed from play, or a
card ability causes it to engage another player.
• If a card ability instructs a player to engage a minion,
that minion is also considered to have engaged that
player.
• While a minion is engaged with a player, card abilities
cannot cause the minion to engage with the same
player again (as the two are already engaged).
See also: Ability, Defeat, Minion, Player, Player’s Play Area

ENTERS PLAY
The phrase "enters play" refers to any time when a card
transitions from an out-of-play area into play. Playing a card,
putting a card into play by using a card ability, or revealing
a card from the encounter deck are all different means by
which a card may enter play.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play, Play, Reveal

ENVIRONMENT
Environment is an encounter card type that creates an
overarching rule or set of rules for the scenario.
An environment card enters play in the villain’s play area,
and is active so long as it remains in play.
• If an environment enters play, it remains in play until a
card ability or game effect causes it to leave play.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Enters Play, Leaves
Play, Villain

EVENT
Event is a player card type that is generally played for an
instantaneous effect.
Each time a player plays an event card, that player places it
faceup on the table in front of them (the event is not in play),
pays its costs, resolves its effects (unless those effects are
canceled), and then places the card in its owner’s discard
pile after those effects resolve (or are canceled).
• If an event has more than one triggered ability on it,
the player playing it chooses one of those abilities to
trigger when playing that event.
• If the effects of an event are canceled, the card is still
considered to have been played, and its costs remain
paid. Only the effects are canceled.
• An event card cannot be played if it requires one or
more targets and does not have at least one valid
target.
• Event cards are considered to be an extension of an
identity. Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from a player
playing an event are also considered to be performed
by that player’s identity.
• If an effect modifies the amount of damage an event
deals or the amount of threat an event removes, and
that event deals multiple instances of damage or
removes multiple instances of threat, each of those
instances is modified.
» If an effect modifies the amount of damage "an
attack" deals (rather than "an event"), and an event
initiates multiple attacks, only the first of those
attacks has its damage modified.
See also: Card Types, Discard, Identity, Labeled Ability,
Player, Player Card, Ownership and Control

EXCESS DAMAGE
Excess damage is any amount of damage that is dealt to
a character beyond that character’s remaining hit points.
See also: Ally, Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Minion,
Remaining Hit Points, Villain

EXHAUSTED
If a card is exhausted, it is rotated 90 degrees.
• An exhausted card cannot be exhausted again until it
is ready. Cards are typically readied by a game step
or card ability.
• A card ability on an exhausted card is active and
can still interact with the game state. However, if an
exhausted card must exhaust to pay the cost of using
its ability, that ability cannot be used until the card
is ready.
See also: Ready

EXPERT MODE
See: Modes of Play

EXPERT SET
The expert set is an encounter set that is added to scenarios
during expert mode.
• The expert set is not a modular encounter set and
cannot be selected (by the players or randomly) when
a scenario requires players to choose a modular
encounter set to include in that scenario.
• Cards in the "Expert" classification are any cards that
have the word "Expert" printed by the bottom of the
card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Modes of Play, Modular Encounter
Set, Appendix I: Deck Customization

FIND
When instructed to find a card, a player searches each game
area where that card could be found (play area, set-aside
area, player deck, discard pile, encounter deck, etc.).
• Players should not unnecessarily search game areas if
they know where the card they are looking for can be
found.
• All game areas are subject to search when resolving a
"find" instruction, with the following exceptions:
» Facedown encounter cards in any in-play game
area (whether that card is in play itself). (For
example, any encounter cards dealt to a player or
given to a character as a boost card.)
» The victory display.
» Cards that have been removed from the game.
• If a player is instructed to "find and reveal" a minion
that is already in play, that player engages that minion
and resolves any keywords and/or triggered abilities
that resolve as a result of that minion being revealed
(such as that minion’s "When Revealed" ability).
» That minion retains all attached cards and tokens
on it.
» That minion is not considered to be entering play.
» That minion is considered to engage that player
unless it was already engaged with that player.
See also: Search, Removed from the Game, Victory Display

FIRST PLAYER
A first player is determined by the players at the beginning
of the game.
The first player token is used to indicate which player is
the first player. At the end of the round (during step five of
the villain phase) the first player token passes to the next
clockwise player, who becomes first player for the next
round.
If the first player is eliminated, the first player token
immediately passes clockwise to the next player.
The players as a group are encouraged to work together,
but the first player decides the following:
• If an encounter card targets a specific player or card,
and there are multiple eligible targets, the first player
selects among the eligible options.
• If an encounter card requires a card ability to be
resolved, a game function to be performed, or a
choice to be made but does not specify which player
should act, the first player does so.
• If two or more effects would resolve simultaneously,
the first player decides the order in which to resolve
them.
The first player has timing priority in the following situations:
• The first player has the first opportunity to use
an interrupt at each appropriate game moment.
Interrupt opportunities then proceed among the
remaining players in player order.
• The first player has the first opportunity to use
a response at each appropriate game moment.
Response opportunities then proceed among the
remaining players in player order.
See also: In Player Order, Player, Player Elimination, Player
Phase

FLIP
When instructed to flip a card, turn that card upside down
so that the face that was faceup is now facedown.
• A foldable, "three-sided" card is considered to have
flipped any time the faceup side of the card changes.
• When a card flips, if the new faceup side of that card
has:
» The same card type as the previous face, the card
retains all attached cards, tucked cards, status
cards, and tokens.
» A different card type from the previous face, all
attached cards, tucked cards, status cards, and
tokens are discarded from the card.
See also: Double-Sided Card

"FOR EACH"
"For each" indicates an effect is repeated based on the
number of a countable game element.
• If an effect with "for each" requires a target, that
effect applies to a single target unless the "for each"
clause includes a "choose" instruction.
» For example, an effect that reads "For each
treachery looked at this way, remove 1 threat from
a scheme" removes threat from a single scheme.
Alternatively, an effect that reads "For each
upgrade you control, choose an enemy and deal
2 damage to it" allows you to choose a different
enemy for each upgrade you control.
• If a "for each" effect without a "choose" instruction
deals damage or removes threat, it is considered a
single instance of damage dealt or threat removed,
respectively.
• If a "for each" effect has a "choose" instruction,
each iteration of that choice is considered a separate
instance of that effect, even if the same target is
chosen multiple times.
» The game state updates after each instance (for
example, if a minion or side scheme is defeated).
» Responses can be triggered after each instance.
» For example, if a player is engaged with a guard
minion and uses an effect that says "for each
resource you spent this way, choose an enemy
and deal 2 damage to it," that player can defeat
the guard minion with one instance of 2 damage,
making the villain a valid target for further
instances. That player can trigger a response ability
like "After you deal damage to an enemy" after
each instance.
• If another ability modifies a "for each" effect, that
modifier is applied to each instance of the "for each"
effect. (For example, Flurry of Blades is an event
that has the effect: "For each Psi-Katana, choose
an enemy and deal 2 damage to it." If modified by
an effect that says "that event deals 1 additional
damage," Flurry of Blades deals 3 damage to each
chosen enemy.)
See also: Ability, Target

FORCED
Forced is a bold trigger word. If the word "Forced"
precedes a triggered ability, the ability’s initiation is
mandatory.
• "Forced Interrupt" and "Forced Response" abilities
must be resolved when their triggering conditions are
met.
• "Forced Action" abilities can be triggered at any
time during the player phase when a non-forced
action ability could be triggered, but must be
resolved before the player phase can end.
• If a forced ability requires one or more targets to
resolve and it has no valid targets, it does not initiate.
» Any costs that would have been paid to initiate the
ability are not paid.
• For any given triggering condition, forced interrupts
take priority and initiate before non-forced interrupts,
and forced responses take priority and initiate before
non-forced responses.
• If two or more forced abilities would initiate at the
same moment, the first player determines the order in
which the abilities initiate, regardless of who controls
the cards bearing those abilities.
• Each forced ability must resolve as completely
as possible before the next forced ability being
triggered by the same triggering condition may
initiate.
See also: Ability, Action, Target

FORM, CHANGE FORM
A player can be in either hero or alter-ego form at a given
time. This is indicated by the player’s identity card.
• Once each round, during their turn, each player is
permitted to change form by flipping their identity
card.
• When a player changes form, only the form changes.
The character retains their sustained damage, status
cards, lasting effects, attached cards, tucked cards,
tokens, and current state (ready or exhausted).
• If a card ability causes a player to change forms,
it does not count against the one voluntary form
change the player is permitted during their turn that
round.
• While a player is in hero form, card abilities that
interact with their alter-ego do not interact with
their identity.
• While a player is in alter-ego form, card abilities
that interact with their hero do not interact with
their identity.
• Cards with the "[type] form" keyword grant an
identity unique forms.
» These forms are in addition to the identity’s alterego and hero forms, and they come with their own
conditions for changing into them.
» When an identity changes their additional form, it
does not count against the once-per-turn limit on
flipping from hero to alter-ego (or vice versa), but
it does count as changing form for the purpose of
triggering card effects.
• Cards with the text "[type] form only" can only be
played or put into play by a player whose identity is in
the specified form.
See also: Flip, Identity, Keywords

"FRIENDLY"
Friendly is a blanket term that refers to cards the players
control.

"GAINS"
If a card gains a characteristic (such as a trait, keyword, or
ability text), the card functions as if it possesses the gained
characteristic. Gained characteristics are not considered to
be printed on the card.
See also: Keywords, Printed, Traits

GAME ELEMENT
A game element is a component or person involved in
playing a game of Marvel Champions. All of the following
are game elements:
• Cards
• Decks
• Discard Piles
• Hands (of cards)
• Hit Point Dials
• Players
• Tokens
See also: Card Types, Deck, Discard Pile, Player, Target

GENERATE
See: Resource

"GETS"
See: Hit Points, Modifiers

GUARD
While a minion with the guard keyword is engaged with a
player, that player cannot use cards they control to attack a
villain without this keyword.
• The guard keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "The engaged player cannot attack
any villain."
See also: Attack (Player Ability Type), Engage, Keywords,
Minion, Reminder Text, Villain

HAND SIZE
Each player checks their hand size at the end of the player
phase, either discarding down to or drawing up to the
number of cards indicated by their hand size value.
• When drawing up to their hand size, a player draws
cards one at a time, checking after each card is drawn
whether they are at their hand size.
See also: End of Player Phase, Modifiers

HAZARD ICON ()
During the Deal Encounter Cards step of the villain phase,
for each hazard icon on cards in play, deal one player one
additional card (not one card per player). Additional cards
are dealt in player order (first additional card to the first
player, the second to the second player, etc.).
• Each hazard icon is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "During the Deal Encounter Cards
step of the villain phase, deal 1 additional encounter
card. Additional cards from hazard icons are dealt in
player order."
See also: Deal, In Player Order, Villain Phase

HEAL
If an ability heals a character, damage the character has
sustained can be removed from the character.
• A heal effect can only bring a character to its
maximum hit points, unless the effect explicitly states
it can bring the character above its maximum.
• Effects that move damage off of a character are
considered to heal that character.
See also: Ally, Hit Points, Identity, Minion, Villain

HERO, HERO FORM
See: Form, Identity

HEROIC MODE
See: Modes of Play

HINDER X
A card with the hinder X keyword enters play with X threat
on it. (X is the value next to the hinder keyword.)
• The hinder X keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "This card enters play with X threat
on it."
• This threat is in addition to any threat it normally
enters play with, such as a side scheme’s starting
threat.
See also: Enters Play, Keywords, Reminder Text, Reveal,
Threat

HIT POINTS
Each character (identity, ally, minion, and villain) has a
hit point value. Hit points represent the durability of that
character.
When damage is dealt to a character, it reduces the
character’s remaining hit points (the amount of damage that
character can take before reaching zero hit points).
• The phrase "starting hit points" refers to an identity’s
printed hit point value.
• An identity’s or villain’s hit point dial represents
their remaining hit points. If an identity or villain
is damaged, apply the damage by reducing that
character’s hit point dial by the specified amount.
» If a player’s hit point dial is reduced to zero, that
player is defeated and eliminated from the game.
» If a villain’s hit point dial is reduced to zero, that
stage of the villain is defeated.
» When an ability that says an identity or villain
"gets +X hit points" goes into effect, increase that
character’s hit point dial by X. If that ability later
ceases to be in effect, reduce that character’s hit
point dial by X.
• If an ally or minion is damaged, track the damage by
placing damage tokens on that character. Damage
tokens on an ally or minion reduce that character’s
remaining hit points by the total value of the tokens.
An ally or minion with zero or fewer remaining hit
points is defeated and placed in the appropriate
discard pile.
» If an ability that says an ally or minion "gets +X hit
points" ceases to be in effect and causes that ally
or minion to have damage on it equal to or greater
than its hit points, that ally or minion is defeated.
Some characters may have an infinite number of hit points.
A character with infinite hit points cannot be defeated by
taking damage, as the amount of damage that character
takes will never cause its remaining hit points to reach zero.
However, damage may still be dealt to a character with
infinite hit points through attacks and card abilities.
See also: Ally, Damage, Defeat, Heal, Identity, Maximum Hit
Points, Minion, Modifiers, Player Elimination, Remaining Hit
Points, Sustained Damage, Villain, Villain Defeat

ICONS
Icons are graphical elements that represent various
functions within the game.
• Energy Icon (): An energy icon is a resource icon
that generates one energy resource when spent.
(See: Energy Resource)
• Mental Icon (): A mental icon is a resource icon that
generates one mental resource when spent. (See:
Mental Resource)
• Physical Icon (): A physical icon is a resource icon
that generates one physical resource when spent.
(See: Physical Resource)
• Wild Icon (): A wild icon is a resource icon that
can generate one energy, mental, physical, or wild
resource when spent. (See: Wild Resource)
• Acceleration Icon (): An acceleration icon places
additional threat on the main scheme during the
villain phase. (See: Acceleration Icon)
• Amplify Icon (): An amplify icon increases the
number of boost icons on boost cards during enemy
activations by one. (See: Amplify Icon)
• Crisis Icon (): A crisis icon prevents players from
removing threat from the main scheme. (See: Crisis
Icon)
• Hazard Icon (): A hazard icon increases the number
of encounter cards that are dealt to players during the
villain phase. Each hazard icon deals one player one
additional card (not one card per player). (See: Hazard
Icon)
• Boost Icon (): A boost icon increases the activating
enemy’s ATK or SCH value during enemy activations.
(See: Boost)
• Star Icon (): A star icon is used in conjunction with
a card’s stat or boost field to indicate that there is a
mandatory ability in the text box that corresponds to
that field. (See: Star Icon)
• Consequential Damage Icon (): A consequential
damage icon is used in conjunction with an ally’s
ATK field or THW field. After an ally attacks or
thwarts, it takes one consequential damage for
each consequential damage icon in that field. (See:
Consequential Damage)
• Cost Arrow (→): A cost arrow separates an ability’s
cost from its effects. (See: Cost Arrow Icon)
• Per Player Icon (): A per player icon next to a value
multiplies that value by the number of players who
started the scenario. (See: Per Player Icon)
• Unique Icon (): A unique icon in a card’s title
indicates the card is unique. (See: Unique Icon)

IDENTITY
Identity is a player card type that represents which character
a player is playing in the game.
A player’s identity card is a double-sided card that
represents their hero on one side and their alter-ego on the
other. The side that is face up indicates the form (hero or
alter-ego) that player is currently in.
• Each player begins the game in alter-ego form.
• If a card refers to a hero or alter-ego by title, it refers
only to the identity with that title, and not to the
other side of the card.
• Identity cards cannot be discarded from play.
• The faceup side of an identity card is considered to
be in play. The facedown side of an identity card is
considered to be out of play.
See also: Form, In Play and Out of Play, Player, Player Card

IDENTITY-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "identity-specific" classification (also
sometimes called "hero-specific") are cards that belong to
an identity’s set of accompanying cards.
• A player’s deck must include each identity-specific
card associated with their chosen identity card. The
exact quantity of each card in that identity-specific
set must be included in the deck.
• Identity-specific cards (along with obligation cards
and nemesis encounter set cards) may only be used
alongside an identity if those cards share a set icon
with that identity.
• An identity-specific card is designated by the identity
icon printed in the bottom right corner of the card.
» Identity cards are identity-specific cards.
See also: Aspect Card, Basic Card, Classifications, Identity,
Nemesis Encounter Set, Appendix I: Deck Customization

IGNORE
An ability that ignores some ability, icon, or cost treats that
ability, icon, or cost as not being in effect or present while
that ability is resolving.
• When a card is played "ignoring its resource cost,"
no resources are paid for that card. For the purpose
of card effects, that card is considered to have been
played with zero resources paid for its cost.
See also: Ability, Cost, Icons, Requirement (Resources)

IN PLAY AND OUT OF PLAY
A card is considered to either be in play or out of play
depending on its state within the game.
If a card is in play, its text is active and it can affect the
game.
• For player cards, the faceup side of a player’s identity
card is in play. The faceup ally cards, support cards,
and upgrade cards that have entered play (played,
put into play, etc.) are in play.
• For encounter cards, the faceup side of the top card
of the villain deck and the faceup side of the top
card of the main scheme deck are in play. The faceup
attachment cards, environment cards, minion cards,
obligation cards, and side scheme cards that have
entered play (revealed, put into play, etc.) are in play.
• A card enters play when it moves from an out-of-play
area to a play area.
• Card abilities only interact with, and can only
target, cards that are in play (unless the ability text
specifically refers to an out-of-play area).
• Card abilities on all card types, except event
cards and treachery cards, can only be initiated or
affect the game while they are in play unless they
specifically refer to being used from an out-of-play
area.
• If a card is double-sided (having game text on each
side of the card), the faceup side of the card is in play.
If a card is out of play, its text is inactive and cannot affect
the game.
• Event cards and treachery cards implicitly resolve
from an out-of-play area, by virtue of the rules
pertaining to those card types.
• Cards in a player’s hand, deck, and discard pile are
out of play.
• Cards in the encounter deck, encounter discard pile,
unrevealed cards in the villain deck, unrevealed cards
in the main scheme deck, and facedown encounter
cards dealt to a player are out of play.
• Facedown cards attached to in-play cards are out of
play.
• Any cards that have been removed from the game or
that have been set aside are out of play.
• A card leaves play when it moves from a play area to
an out-of-play area.
• If a card is double-sided (having game text on each
side of the card), the facedown side is out of play.
See also: Ability, Enters Play, Leaves Play, Play, Play
Restrictions and Permissions, Set Aside, Target, Victory
Display

IN PLAYER ORDER
If players are instructed to perform a sequence "in player
order," the first player performs their part of the sequence
first, followed by the other players in clockwise order.
• If a sequence performed in player order does not
conclude after each player has performed their part
of the sequence once, the sequence of opportunities
continues in a clockwise manner until it is complete.
• The phrase "next player" always refers to the next
(clockwise) player in player order.
See also: Find, Player, Player Phase, Player Turn

INCITE X
When a card with the incite X keyword is revealed, place X
threat on the main scheme. (X is the value next to the incite
keyword.)
• The incite X keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "When Revealed: Place X threat on
the main scheme."
See also: Keywords, Main Scheme, Reminder Text, Reveal,
Threat

INDIRECT DAMAGE
Some card abilities may deal "indirect damage."
• Indirect damage dealt to a player can be divided as
that player chooses among characters under their
control.
• Indirect damage dealt to a group of players (or
among players) can be divided as the group chooses
among friendly characters in play.
• All indirect damage from a single source is first
assigned and then resolved simultaneously.
» While assigning indirect damage, a character
cannot be assigned more indirect damage than
would cause it to be defeated. This is assessed
without accounting for interactions with other
abilities.
» A character with a tough status card can be
assigned indirect damage up to its remaining hit
points, and all damage assigned to it is prevented
by its tough status card.
• Characters that cannot take damage cannot be
assigned indirect damage.
» If indirect damage dealt to a player cannot be
assigned to any character that player controls, that
damage is ignored.
• If an enemy’s attack deals indirect damage, the
indirect damage is dealt during step four of the
enemy activation (after player’s have the opportunity
to defend against the attack).
» Only the defending character, or the attacked
player’s identity if the attack was undefended, is
considered to have been attacked, even if other
characters were assigned some or all of the indirect
damage.
• For example, if you take 5 indirect damage, but you
control an ally with 4 hit points remaining, you may
assign 4 of that indirect damage to the ally, then
assign the remaining 1 indirect damage to your
identity.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Damage, Defeat,
Player

INFINITE HIT POINTS
See: Hit Points

INITIATING ABILITIES
When a player wishes to play a card or initiate a triggered
ability, that player first declares their intent. Then, the player
checks the following conditions in order:
1. If playing a card, the player places that card faceup on
the table in front of them. (This card is not in play.)
2. Check play restrictions: can the card be played, or the
ability initiated, at this time?
» If the card or ability specifies one or more targets,
check that it has at least one valid target. If the card
or ability does not have at least one valid target, it
cannot be played or initiated.
» If the card or ability has a form requirement (for
example, "Hero form only" or "Hero Action"), the
form of the player playing that card or initiating that
ability is checked now.
3. Determine the cost (or costs) to play the card or initiate
the ability and the player’s ability to pay them, taking
modifiers into account.
» If a card has a resource cost of X, the player playing
that card chooses the value of X during this step.
If both conditions are met, follow these steps in order:
4. Apply any modifiers to the cost(s).
5. Pay the cost(s). If this step is reached and the cost(s)
cannot be paid, abort this process without paying any
costs.
6. The card commences being played, or the effects of
the ability attempt to initiate.
2
7. The card is played or the ability (if not canceled in the
previous step) resolves. The card enters play or, if it is
an event card, its effects resolve and it is then placed in
its owner’s discard pile.
• If any of the above steps would make the triggering
condition of an interrupt ability true, that ability may
be initiated just before that triggering condition
becomes true.
• If any of the above steps would make the triggering
condition of a response ability true, that ability
may be initiated immediately after that triggering
condition becomes true.
• If the ability being initiated is on a card that is in play,
the sequence does not stop from completing if that
card leaves play during this sequence unless the card
leaving play prevents a required cost from being
paid.
See also: Ability, Cost, Play Restrictions and Permissions,
Target

"INSTEAD"
See: Replacement Effect

INTERRUPT
An interrupt ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated
by the bold "Interrupt" timing trigger. Interrupt abilities
may be resolved anytime the specified triggering condition
occurs, as described in the interrupt’s ability text. The
interrupt ability interrupts the resolution of the specified
triggering condition, and resolves immediately before that
triggering condition resolves.
• Players can only trigger interrupt abilities on cards
they control or on encounter cards.
» Players cannot trigger interrupt abilities on
obligations in other players’ play areas.
• Multiple interrupts may be triggered by the same
triggering condition, but each interrupt can only
be triggered once per occurrence of the triggering
condition.
» Multiple copies of a card with an interrupt can each
be triggered by the same triggering condition.
• An interrupt ability is resolved when its triggering
condition initiates, but before that triggering
condition resolves.
» Interrupts that use the word "would" resolve
before its triggering condition initiates, when that
condition becomes imminent.
• If an interrupt changes (via a replacement effect) or
cancels an imminent triggering condition, further
interrupts to the original triggering condition cannot
be triggered.
• Once all players decide they do not wish to resolve
any (further) interrupts to a triggering condition,
(further) interrupts to that instance of that triggering
condition cannot be used.
See also: Cancel, Replacement Effect, Triggered Ability,
"Would"

KEYWORDS
A keyword is an attribute that conveys specific rules to its
card.
• If a card gains multiple instances of a keyword,
any additional instances have no effect unless that
keyword is followed by a number (e.g. Hinder X,
Retaliate X), in which case the numbers for each
instance are added together.
The following keywords are used in the game:
• Alliance: When a player declares their intention to play
an alliance card, any player(s) may help pay the costs
for that card. (See: Alliance)
• Assault: When a character makes a basic thwart
against a scheme with the assault keyword, that
character uses its ATK instead of its THW. (See:
Assault)
• Form: A card with the form keyword grants an
identity a unique form. (See: Form)
• Guard: While a minion with guard is engaged with
a player, that player cannot attack the villain. (See:
Guard)
• Hinder X: A card with the hinder X keyword enters play
with X threat on it. (See: Hinder X)
• Incite X: When a player reveals a card with incite X,
that player places X threat on the main scheme. (See:
Incite X)
• Linked (Card Title): Cards with the linked keyword
are set aside until the card named in parentheses
brings the linked card into the game. (See: Linked
(Card Title))
• Overkill: Excess damage from attacks with overkill
are dealt to the identity or villain. (See: Overkill)
• Patrol: While a minion with patrol is engaged with a
player, that player cannot thwart the main scheme.
(See: Patrol)
• Peril: While a player is resolving a card with peril,
other players cannot help that player. (See: Peril)
• Permanent: Cards with permanent cannot leave play.
(See: Permanent)
• Piercing: Attacks with piercing discard tough status
cards from the attacked character before damage is
dealt. (See: Piercing)
• Quickstrike: After this enemy engages a player, it
immediately attacks that player if they are in hero
form. (See: Quickstrike)
• Ranged: Attacks with ranged ignore retaliate. (See:
Ranged)
• Requirement (Resources): A card with the
requirement keyword cannot be played unless each
resource of the specified type is spent while paying
for that card’s cost. (See: Requirement (Resources))
• Restricted: A player cannot control more than two
restricted cards at a given time. (See: Restricted)
2
• Retaliate X: After a character with retaliate X is
attacked, deal X damage to the attacker. (See:
Retaliate X)
• Setup: Cards with setup start the game in play. (See:
Setup)
• Stalwart: Characters with Stalwart cannot be stunned
or confused. (See: Stalwart)
• Steady: A character with the steady keyword is not
stunned or confused unless it has two stunned or
confused status cards, respectively. (See: Steady)
• Surge: After a player reveals a card with surge, that
player reveals an additional encounter card. (See:
Surge)
• Team-Up: Cards with team-up cannot be played
unless both characters listed by the keyword are in
play. (See: Team-Up)
• Teamwork (Trait): After a minion with teamwork enters
play and engages a player, if there is at least one other
minion that shares the specified trait in play, the minion
that just entered play activates against the player it is
engaged with. (See: Teamwork (Trait))
• Temporary: A card with temporary must be discarded
from play at the end of the round. (See: Temporary)
• Toughness: When a character with toughness enters
play, place a tough status card on it. (See: Tough/
Toughness)
• Uses (X "type"): When a card with uses enters
play, place X all-purpose counters from the token
pool on that card. After the last all-purpose counter
is removed from a card with uses (and the effect
resolves), discard that card. (See: Uses (X "type"))
• Victory X: When a card with victory X is defeated,
add it to the victory display. (See: Victory X)
• Villainous: When a minion with villainous activates,
give it a boost card. (See: Villainous)

LABELED ABILITY
A labeled ability is a triggered ability with a parenthetical
following its bold trigger text that designates that ability as
an attack, defense, and/or thwart.
• The identity of the player using the labeled ability is
considered to be performing the labeled effect when
the labeled ability begins resolving (after costs have
been paid).
• When a player resolves an ability labeled "(attack),"
that ability is considered to be an attack made by that
player’s identity.
• When a player resolves an ability labeled "(defense),"
that ability is considered to be a defense made by
that player’s identity.
» When such an ability is initiated during an attack,
the player’s identity becomes the defender of that
attack.
• When a player resolves an ability labeled "(thwart),"
that ability is considered to be a thwart made by that
player’s identity.
• When a player resolves an ability with multiple labels,
that ability is considered to be each of the labeled
ability types, all made by that player’s identity.
• If a player triggers a labeled ability while their identity
has one or more status cards that cancel any of the
labeled ability types, the entire ability (except for its
costs) is canceled.
» That identity is not considered to have attacked,
defended, or thwarted.
» Each status card on the player’s identity that
cancels any of the labeled ability’s types is removed
when that ability is canceled. For example, an
ability labeled "(attack/thwart)" would remove both
a confused status and a stunned status from the
identity of the player who triggered the ability.
See also: Attack (Player Ability Type), Defend, Thwart

LASTING EFFECTS
Some card abilities create effects or conditions that affect
the game for a specified duration (such as "until the end of
the phase" or "until the end of this attack"). Such effects are
known as lasting effects.
• A lasting effect persists beyond the resolution of the
ability that created it, for the duration specified by
the effect. The effect continues to affect the game for
the specified duration whether or not the card that
created the lasting effect is in play.
• For the specified duration of a lasting effect, it is
treated as if it was a constant ability and has the same
timing priority as a constant ability.
• Lasting effects update whenever the game state
updates. (For example, a lasting effect of "until the
end of the phase, your hero gets +1 ATK for each
minion in play" changes the affected hero’s ATK any
time a minion enters or leaves play during that phase.)
• If a card enters play (or changes status to meet the
criteria of a specified set of affected cards) after the
creation of a lasting effect, it is still affected by that
lasting effect.
• A lasting effect expires as soon as the timing point
specified by its duration is reached. This means that
an "until the end of the round" lasting effect expires
just before an "at the end of the round" ability or
delayed effect may initiate.
• A lasting effect that expires at the end of a specified
time period can only be initiated during that time
period.
See also: Ability, Enters Play

LEADER
The leader card type follows the same rules as the villain
card type for all purposes.
See also: Villain

LEAVES PLAY
The phrase "leaves play" refers to any time when a card
transitions from an in-play area to an out-of-play area.
Defeating a character, discarding a card from play, placing
a card in the victory display, or removing a card from the
game are all different means by which a card can leave play.
• When a card leaves play, there is no memory of its
previous state and it is considered to be a new copy
of the card.
• When a non-villain card leaves play:
» Discard each card attached to or tucked under that
card.
» Discard each boost card given to that card.
» Return each token and status card on that card to
the supply.
See also: Defeat, Discard, Discard Pile, Enters Play, In Play
and Out of Play, Removed from the Game, Victory Display

LIMIT
"Limit X per [period]" is a limit that appears on some player
cards. These limits are card-specific. Each copy of an ability
with such a limit may be used X times per the specified
period, per instance of that ability.
• If an effect with a limit is canceled, the card is
still considered to have been played or the ability
initiated, and it counts toward the limit.
See also: Player Card

LINKED (CARD TITLE)
Cards with the linked keyword cannot be included in any
deck. Instead, they are set aside at the start of the game if
any deck includes the card that brings the linked cards into
play (indicated in the parentheses following the keyword).
• The linked (card title) keyword is equivalent to the
following constant ability: "Set this card aside during
setup. This card does not count toward your deck
size."
• Linked cards do not count toward the minimum or
maximum deck size.
• The number of linked cards set aside during setup is
equal to the number of those cards included in the
product from which the linked card came.
» If multiple decks contain the same card named on
one or more linked cards, set aside the appropriate
number of cards for each deck that contains the
named card.
• When a player takes control of a card with the linked
keyword, that player becomes the owner of that card.
See also: Keywords, Ownership and Control, Set Aside

LOOK, LOOKED-AT
If an ability instructs a player to look at cards that are
otherwise hidden from the players, only the player who is
resolving the ability can look at those cards. However, that
player is permitted to convey any amount of information
related to those cards to other players.
• While a player is looking at cards in a deck, those
cards are still considered part of that deck.
» After looking at cards in a deck, those cards are
returned to that deck in the same order.

"LOSES"
If a card loses a characteristic (such as a trait, keyword, or
ability text), the card functions as if it does not possess the
gained characteristic.
• Lost characteristics are still considered to be printed
on the card.
• A lost characteristic cannot be regained while the
ability causing it to be lost is in effect, even if a new
effect would cause the characteristic to be gained.
See also: Keywords, Printed, Traits

MAIN SCHEME, MAIN SCHEME DECK
Main scheme is an encounter card type. The main scheme
represents the villain’s primary objective.
• During step one of the villain phase, place the amount
of threat indicated in the main scheme’s acceleration
field (bottom-right corner) on that scheme. This value
is modified by all active acceleration tokens and
icons.
• If the amount of threat on a main scheme is equal
to or greater than its target threat value, that main
scheme is completed and the main scheme deck
advances.
» If the villain completes the final stage of the
main scheme deck, the villain wins the game.
» If the main scheme advances other than through
having threat on it equal to or greater than its
target threat value, that main scheme is not
considered completed.
• When the main scheme deck advances, follow these
steps:
1. Remove the top main scheme card from the game.
Return all tokens (except acceleration tokens) that
were on that card to the token pool and discard
each card attached to it.
2. Resolve any "When Revealed" ability on the "A"
side of the new top card of the main scheme deck.
3. Flip the top card of the main scheme deck to
its "B" side, place threat on that card equal to
its starting threat value, and resolve any "When
Revealed" ability on that side of the card.
• When the main scheme deck advances, excess threat
from the previous stage does not carry over to the
new stage.
• When the main scheme deck advances, acceleration
tokens on it carry over to the new stage.
• Main scheme cards cannot be discarded from play.
See also: Acceleration Icon, Acceleration Token, Card
Types, Encounter Card, Removed from the Game, Target
Threat, Threat, Villain, Villain Phase

MAX, MAXIMUM
The words "max" and "maximum" impose a maximum
across all copies of a card (by title) for all players.
• "Max X per [period]" imposes a maximum number of
times that copies of that card can be played during
the designated time period.
» If a card with a maximum is canceled, the card is
still counted toward the maximum.
• "Max X per deck" restricts the number of copies of
that card that may be included in each player deck.
• "Max 1 per player" is player specific, and restricts the
number of copies of that card that each player may
control in play at a given time.
» A player cannot take control of another copy of a
"Max 1 per player" card they already control.
• "Max 1 per [game element]" restricts the number
of copies of that card that can be attached to each
indicated game element. (For example, if an upgrade
is "Max 1 per ally," an ally can have at most one copy
of that upgrade attached.)
• "Max 1 per [instance]" restricts the number of times
an ability can be triggered by a single instance of a
triggering effect across all copies of the card with
the maximum. (For example, if an ability has the text
"(Max 1 per event.)," only one card with that ability
can be triggered per event played.)
• The parenthetical "(to a maximum of [value])" within
an ability imposes a maximum on that ability for the
duration of that ability.
See also: Cancel, Limit, Appendix I: Deck Customization

MAXIMUM HIT POINTS
A character’s maximum hit points is their base hit points
plus or minus all "gets" hit point modifiers that are active on
that character.
See also: Ally, Base Value, Hit Points, Identity, Minion,
Modifiers, Villain

MAY
The word "may" indicates that a specified player has
the option to resolve the text that follows. If no player is
specified, the option is granted to the controller of the card
with the ability in question.
See also: Player

MENTAL RESOURCE ()
A mental resource () is one of the four types of resources.
• Mental resources can be spent to pay the resource
cost of cards and abilities.
• Some card abilities specifically require mental
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Physical
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource

MINION
Minion is an encounter card type. Minions represent
supporters of the villain and/or enemies of the heroes.
If a minion enters play, it engages the player who is
revealing the card from the encounter deck or resolving
the ability that put the minion into play, unless an ability
specifies otherwise.
• If a minion enters play, it remains in play until a card
ability or game effect causes it to leave play.
• If a minion has zero or fewer remaining hit points, it is
defeated and discarded.
• Minions engaged with a player activate (one minion
at a time and in an order of the engaged player’s
choosing) during step two of the villain phase, after
the villain activates. If the engaged player is in hero
form, these minions attack. If the engaged player is in
alter-ego form, these minions scheme.
• If a minion engages a player during an enemy
activation in which all minions engaged with that
player are instructed to activate (such as through a
"Boost" ability during step two of the villain phase),
the newly-engaged minion will also activate.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Engage, Enters Play,
Form, Hit Points, Identity, Leaves Play, Player, Player’s Play
Area, Villain, Villain Phase

MODES OF PLAY
Before starting a game of Marvel Champions, players can
customize their experience by choosing from or combining
different modes of play. The modes of play are:
Standard Mode — Standard Mode is the basic mode of
play for all scenarios.
• To play in Standard Mode, follow the content and
setup instructions for the chosen scenario.
Expert Mode — Expert Mode is a modification of standard
mode for advanced players who seek a greater challenge.
• To play a standard game modified by expert mode,
follow the content and setup instructions for the
chosen scenario, using the listed expert mode
villain stages, and add the Expert encounter set to
encounter deck.
• Expert mode can also be combined with heroic
mode, skirmish mode, and/or campaign mode.
Heroic Mode — Heroic mode is a modification of standard
mode that allows players to scale the difficulty of the game.
• To play a standard game modified by heroic mode,
before the game begins, the player group chooses a
heroic level number (such as heroic level 1 or 4). Then,
for the remainder of that game, during step three of
each villain phase, deal X additional encounter cards
to each player, where X is equal to the chosen heroic
level number.
• Heroic mode can also be combined with expert
mode, skirmish mode, and/or campaign mode.
Skirmish Mode — Skirmish mode (also sometimes called
Rookie Mode) is a modification of standard mode that
allows players to shorten the length of the game.
• To play a standard game modified by skirmish mode,
before the game begins, the player group chooses
any one version of the villain. During step eight of
game setup (Select Scenario), put only the chosen
version of the villain into play and remove each other
version in the villain deck from the game.
• Skirmish mode can also be combined with expert
mode, heroic mode, and/or campaign mode.
Campaign Mode — Campaign mode allows players to
modify standard mode through interconnected scenarios
that are played one after another. No two campaigns
are exactly alike, and the rules for each are found in the
campaign’s associated rulebook.
• Expert campaign mode is a modification of campaign
mode for advanced players who seek a greater
challenge. The rules for each expert campaign mode
are found in the campaign’s associated rulebook.
• Each campaign comes with its own campaign log.
The campaign log is a record of what effects or cards
persist between games in a campaign.
• If a card is removed from a campaign, that card can
no longer be used during the rest of the campaign,
even if players retry the scenario wherein that card
was removed.
• During campaign mode or expert campaign mode,
players can choose which other mode(s) they wish to
play for each individual scenario. The difficulty of the
campaign mode does not require players to play any
other specific game mode.
• Campaign mode (and expert campaign mode) can
also be combined with expert mode, heroic mode,
and/or skirmish mode.
See also: Campaign-Specific Card, Expert Set, Standard
Set

MODIFIERS
The game constantly checks and (if necessary) updates the
count of any variable quantity that is being modified.
Any time a new modifier is applied or removed, the entire
quantity is recalculated from the start, considering the
unmodified base value and all active modifiers.
• The "per player" icon () is not considered a modifier
and is applied before any modifiers are applied.
• The calculation of a value treats all modifiers as being
applied simultaneously. However, while performing
the calculation, all additive and subtractive modifiers
are calculated before doubling and/or halving
modifiers are calculated.
• If a value is "set" to a specific number, the set
modifier overrides all non-set modifiers. If multiple
set modifiers are in conflict, the most recently
resolved set modifier takes precedence.
• After all active modifiers have been taken into
account, if a value is below zero, it is treated as zero:
a card cannot have "negative" icons, attributes, traits,
cost, or keywords.
• Fractional values are rounded up after all modifiers
have been applied.
• If a card ability causes a character to "get" a statistic
(such as +1 ATK or 4 hit points), the ability modifies
the character’s statistic while it is active.
» If such an ability expires or otherwise becomes
inactive, the modified statistic reverts to the value
it would have without the modifier.
• A value of a dash (–) cannot be modified.
See also: Base Value, Dash (Value), Printed

MODULAR ENCOUNTER SET
Cards belonging to a "modular encounter set" (or
sometimes "modular set") are a classification of encounter
card that can be added to and/or removed from nearly any
scenario.
• During game setup, many scenarios will instruct the
players on how many modular encounter sets must be
included in that scenario. Depending on the scenario,
some modular encounter sets are required, while
others can be chosen by the players.
• If a modular encounter set is added to a scenario, it
is done so as an entire set. Unless specific scenario
rules state otherwise, individual cards from a modular
encounter set cannot be included in a scenario
without the rest of that set.
• A modular encounter set card is designated by
the modular encounter set’s name with which it is
associated printed at the bottom of the card in its
encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Appendix I: Deck Customization

MOVE
Some abilities allow players to move game elements, such
as cards, damage, or threat.
• When an element moves, it cannot move to its same
(current) placement.
• If there is no valid source or destination for a move,
the move cannot be made.
• It is possible for damage to move between dials and
cards (and vice versa).
» If damage is moved from a dial to a card, increase
the hit points tracked by the dial by the specified
amount (no higher than the card’s maximum hit
points), and place the same amount of damage on
the card.
» If damage is moved from a card to a dial, remove
damage from the card and reduce the dial by the
same amount.
• If damage is moved off a character, the moved
damage is considered to be healed from that
character.
• If damage is moved to a character, the moved
damage is considered to be dealt to that character.
• If threat is moved off a scheme, the moved threat is
considered to be removed from that scheme.
• If threat is moved to a scheme, the moved threat is
considered to be placed on that scheme.
See also: Game Element

NEMESIS ENCOUNTER SET
Each identity in the game comes with an associated nemesis
encounter set. At the start of the game, each player sets
aside the cards from their associated nemesis set, out of
play. Cards drawn from the encounter deck may instruct the
player on how to bring their nemesis set into play.
• A nemesis encounter set is a subset of an identityspecific set.
• A nemesis set cards may only be used alongside
an identity if those cards share a set icon with that
identity.
• An identity’s "nemesis minion" is the minion
belonging to that identity’s nemesis set.
» If a nemesis set has multiple minions in it, the
"nemesis minion" is designated by parenthetical
text printed on one or more of those minions.
• An identity’s "nemesis side scheme" is the side
scheme belonging to that identity’s nemesis set.
See also: Identity, Identity-Specific Card, In Play and Out of
Play, Player

NON-NUMERICAL VARIABLE
If a non-numerical variable (such as a letter or other symbol)
is defined to have a numerical value (such as a card ability
assigning a value to ‘X’), treat that variable as the defined
value. If the variable is not defined (for instance, if the ability
defining it has been blanked), treat that variable as being
equal to 0.
• For costs involving the letter X, the value of X is
defined by card ability or player choice, after which
the amount paid may be modified by effects without
changing the value of X.
See also: Base Value, Dash (Value), Printed, Star Icon

OBLIGATION
Obligation is an encounter card type that represents a
commitment or obstacle that an identity’s alter-ego might
have to face or overcome.
• Abilities on obligations that use the words "you" or
"your" apply only to the player whose play area the
obligation is in.
• Each identity is associated with one or more
obligation cards. If an identity is being played, all
of that identity’s associated obligation cards are
shuffled into the encounter deck during setup.
• Identity-specific obligation cards are part of their
associated identity’s identity-specific set.
• Identity-specific obligation cards can only be used
alongside an identity if those cards share a set icon
with that identity.
If an obligation card is revealed from the encounter deck
and that obligation instructs that it must be given to a
specific player (such as "Give to the Peter Parker player"),
place that obligation into the player’s play area who controls
the associated identity. That player must decide how to
resolve the obligation.
• If an obligation cannot be given to the specified
player for any reason, ignore the card’s ability,
remove it from the game, and reveal an additional
encounter card.
If a player reveals an obligation card from the encounter
deck and that obligation does not instruct that it must be
given to a specific player, the player places that obligation
into their play area. That player must decide how to resolve
the obligation.
• Only the player with the obligation in their play area
can trigger abilities or pay costs on that obligation.
If a player draws an obligation card from their player deck,
they place that obligation into their play area.
• The player does not draw a card to replace the
obligation unless they are refilling their hand to their
hand size.
See also: Card Types, Encounter Card, Encounter Deck,
Enters Play, Form, Identity, Leaves Play, Player, Player
Elimination, Removed from the Game

"OTHERWISE"
Effects beginning with "otherwise" resolve only if the
preceding effect was not resolved.
• An "otherwise" effect will resolve if one or more of
the following are true of the preceding effect:
» It has a condition that is not true. (For example,
an ability reads: "If you are in hero form, take
2 damage. Otherwise, place 2 threat on the main
scheme." The "otherwise" portion resolves if the
player is not in hero form.)
» It has an effect that cannot at least partially resolve.
(For example, an ability reads: "Discard 2 cards
from your hand. Otherwise, exhaust your identity."
The "otherwise" portion resolves if the player
cannot discard at least 1 card from their hand.)
• If "otherwise" is preceded by a semicolon, the
"preceding effect" refers to the effects before the
semicolon in the same sentence. If the "otherwise"
effect is its own sentence, the "preceding effect"
refers to the sentence coming directly before the
"otherwise" sentence.
See also: Replacement Effect, Target

OVERKILL
If an ally is defeated by an attack with the overkill keyword,
deal any damage on that ally beyond its hit points to the
identity of the player who controls the ally.
If a minion is defeated by an attack with the overkill
keyword, deal any damage on that minion beyond its hit
points to the villain.
• The overkill keyword is equivalent to the following
ability: "If this attack defeats an ally, deal the damage
beyond its hit points to the identity of that ally’s
controller. If this attack defeats a minion, deal the
damage beyond its hit points to the villain."
• Damage dealt by overkill to an identity or villain is
considered damage from an attack, but does not
constitute an attack against that character.
• If a card ability counts excess damage dealt, that
ability counts the same value of excess damage that
is calculated when resolving the overkill keyword.
• If excess damage from an attack with overkill is
prevented, that damage is not dealt to the identity or
villain.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Ability Type), Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Keywords,
Minion, Reminder Text, Villain

"OVERPAY"
See: Cost

OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL
A card’s owner is the player whose deck contained the card
at the start of setup. The scenario is considered to be the
owner of the encounter deck and each encounter card.
• Identity cards are owned and controlled by the player
playing as that identity.
• Cards enter play under their owner’s control.
Encounter cards are considered to be under the
control of the scenario.
» Upgrades attached to a card controlled by a player
other than the upgrade’s owner are controlled by
that other player.
» When a player takes control of a campaign-specific
or scenario-specific player card (such as an ally,
support, or upgrade) with a player card back, that
player becomes the owner of that card until the
game ends or another player takes control of that
card.
• Control of a card remains constant unless an ability
explicitly causes the card to change control.
• A player controls the cards in their own out-of-play
areas (such as the hand, the deck, and the discard
pile).
• If a character changes control while it is in play, it
remains in the same state (i.e., readied or exhausted,
damaged or not, etc.) and is moved to its new
controller’s play area.
• Upgrades on a card that changes control also change
control to the same new controller.
• A change in control of a card remains in effect until
one of the following occurs:
» The ability that changed control of that card ceases
to be in effect (for instance, when an attachment or
upgrade that changes control of the attached card
is removed), that card reverts to its owner’s control.
» That card leaves play, it is placed in its owner’s
equivalent out-of-play area (hand, deck, or discard
pile, or removed from the game if that player is no
longer in the game).
» That card is an event that was played, it is placed in
its owner’s discard pile.
» That card is discarded from a player’s hand, it is
placed in its owner’s discard pile.
• If a game step or card ability references a card that
"you control" or a "player controls," that game step
or card ability only refers to cards in play currently
under that player’s control.
See also: Classifications, Encounter Card, Encounter Deck,
In Play and Out of Play, Player, Player Card, Player Deck,
Player’s Play Area, Villain’s Play Area
3

PATROL
While a minion with the patrol keyword is engaged with a
player, that player cannot use cards they control to thwart
the main scheme.
• The patrol keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "The engaged player cannot thwart
the main scheme."
See also: Engage, Keywords, Main Scheme, Minion,
Reminder Text, Thwart

"PAY"
See: Cost

PER PLAYER ICON ()
The  icon next to a value multiplies that value by the
number of players who started the scenario.
• If a player is eliminated, this value does not change.
See also: Icons, Modifiers, Player Elimination

PERIL
While a player is resolving a card with the peril keyword,
that player cannot consult other players, and other players
cannot play cards or trigger abilities.
• The peril keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "While a player is resolving this card,
that player cannot consult other players, and other
players cannot trigger abilities. While this card is
in a player’s play area, other players cannot trigger
abilities on this card."
See also: Ability, Keywords, Player, Reminder Text, Table
Talk, Triggered Ability

PERMANENT
A card with the permanent keyword cannot be defeated,
leave play, or have any part of its text box blanked, except
by card abilities in the same set (hero set, scenario set, or
modular set). (For example, an ability on a hero card can
cause a permanent card within that hero’s set to leave play.)
• The permanent keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "Set this card aside during setup.
Effects on cards not from this card’s set cannot defeat
this card, remove this card from play, or blank any
part of its text box."
• Permanent cards are set aside before step 1 of setup
and are put into play later by abilities on other cards.
• Permanent cards do not count towards a player’s
minimum or maximum deck size.
• Permanent cards are not valid targets for card effects
that would cause the permanent card to leave play.
» If a permanent card would be targeted by such
an effect (for example, "discard the lowest-cost
support you control"), that effect instead targets
the non-permanent card that fits its criteria.
• If the card to which a permanent attachment was
attached leaves play, resolve that attachment’s
"attach to" text. If it has none or that text does not
have a valid target, remove the attachment from the
game.
• If a player is eliminated from the game while a
non-attachment permanent card they do not own is in
their play area, remove that permanent card from the
game.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Keywords, Leaves Play,
Ownership and Control, Reminder Text

PHYSICAL RESOURCE ()
A physical resource () is one of the four types of resources.
• Physical resources can be spent to pay the resource
cost of cards and abilities.
• Some card abilities specifically require physical
resources to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental
Resource, Resource, Wild Resource

PIERCING
An attack with the piercing keyword discards any tough
status cards from the attacked character before dealing
damage.
• The piercing keyword is equivalent to the following
ability: "Before this attack deals damage to a
character, discard each tough status card from that
character."
• If an attack with the piercing keyword would deal no
damage to the attacked character, it does not discard
tough status cards from that character.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player Ability
Type), Damage, Keywords, Reminder Text, Status Cards,
Target, Tough

PL AY, PUT INTO PL AY
Playing a card involves paying the card’s cost and placing
the card in the play area. This causes the card to enter play
(or, in the case of an event card, to resolve its ability and be
placed in the discard pile). Cards are played from a player’s
hand.
Some abilities cause cards to be put into play. This bypasses
the need to pay the card’s cost as well as any restrictions or
prohibitions regarding playing that card. A card that is put
into play enters play in its controller’s play area.
• Cards with the text "[type] form only" can only be
played or put into play by a player whose identity is in
the specified form.
• When an event card is played, place it on the table,
resolve its ability, and place the card in its owner’s
discard pile.
• A card that is put into play is not considered to have
been played.
• When a card is put into play, its resource cost is
ignored.
• Unless otherwise stated by the "put into play" effect,
cards that are put into play must do so in a play area
or state that matches the rules of playing the card.
See also: Enters Play, In Play and Out of Play, Initiating
Abilities, Leaves Play, Play Restrictions and Permissions

PLAY AREA
There are two types of play areas: a player’s play area and
the villain’s play area.
• A player’s play area contains that player’s identity,
deck, hand, discard pile, any cards in play under
their control, and any faceup or facedown encounter
cards in their play area (such as engaged minions or
encounter cards that have been dealt to them).
• The villain’s play area contains the villain deck, main
scheme deck, encounter deck, encounter discard
pile, and any encounter cards in play that have not
entered a player’s play area (such as side schemes or
environments).
• A card cannot be in more than one play area at a
time.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Player’s Play Area, Villain’s
Play Area

PL AY RESTRICTIONS AND

PERMISSIONS
Many cards and abilities contain specific instructions
pertaining to when or how they may or may not be used,
or to specific conditions that must be true in order to use
them.
• In order to use an ability or play a card, all of its play
restrictions must be observed.
• A permission is an optional play restriction, which
allows a player to play a card or use an ability outside
the timing or specifications provided by the game
rules. For example, a permission might allow an ally
card to be played from a player’s discard pile.
See also: Ability, Play, Player

PLAYER
A player is a person who is playing in a game of Marvel
Champions.
• Each player in the game has their own personal play
area containing their identity card, their identity’s
hit point dial, their hand of cards, their deck that
they draw from, their discard pile that they place
their discarded cards into, any allies, upgrades,
or supports that they may have in play, and any
attachments, minions, or obligations that they may
have in their play area.
• During each player phase of each round, each player
takes their own personal turn where they can play
cards, perform actions with cards they control, and
use various abilities.
• Each player owns the cards that were contained
within their deck (including their identity card) at the
start of the game.
• Some game steps, game functions, or card abilities
may refer to the "first player". The first player is the
player who has the first player token.
See also: Discard, Discard Pile, Find, Identity, In Play and
Out of Play, Player Deck, Player Elimination, Player Phase,
Player Turn, Player’s Play Area, You

PLAYER CARD
There are seven player card types: ally cards, event cards,
identity cards, player side scheme cards, resource cards,
support cards, and upgrade cards.
• Player cards may belong to various classifications,
such as identity-specific player cards or aspect player
cards.
• Most player cards have a blue card back.
See also: Ally, Classifications, Event, Identity, Player Side
Scheme, Resource Card, Support, Upgrade, Appendix I:
Deck Customization

PLAYER DECK
A player’s deck contains the player cards (allies, events,
player side schemes, resources, supports, and upgrades)
owned by the player who started the game with that deck.
• The order of cards within a player’s deck cannot be
changed unless a player is instructed to do so by a
game step, game function, or card ability.
If a player deck empties, the player shuffles their discard
pile to make a new deck. That player immediately deals
themself one facedown encounter card from the top of the
encounter deck.
• If the player’s deck empties and reshuffles while the
player was drawing cards, the player continues to
draw cards up to the specified number.
• If the player’s deck empties while the player was
discarding cards from their deck, no further cards are
discarded from the newly shuffled deck.
• If a player deck empties and the player has no cards
in their discard pile, the deck does not reset until
there is at least one card in the player’s discard
pile, then the player deals themself one facedown
encounter card.
See also: Discard, Discard Pile, Draw, Encounter Deck,
Shuffle

PLAYER DISCARD PILE
See: Discard Pile

PLAYER ELIMINATION
A player is eliminated from the game if their identity
is defeated. This usually occurs when the character’s
remaining hit points are reduced to zero.
When a player is eliminated, perform the following in order:
1. If the eliminated player has the first player token, they
pass it to the next clockwise player.
2. If there are minions engaged with the eliminated player,
each of those minions engages the next clockwise
player, retaining any tokens, attached cards, boost
cards, tucked cards, and status cards on them.
3. For each card in the eliminated player’s play area that
are not owned by that player, do the following:
• If that card is an attachment with the permanent
keyword, resolve its "attach to" text. If it has none
or that text does not have a valid target, remove the
attachment from the game.
• Remove each non-attachment card with the
permanent keyword from the game.
• Place each other card in its owner’s discard pile.
4. Place each card owned by the eliminated player in the
eliminated player’s discard pile.
5. Remove the eliminated player’s play area and each
other game element within it (hand, deck, discard pile,
cards in play, hit point dial, etc.) from the game.
When a player is eliminated, the remaining players continue
to play the game. Eliminated players no longer participate
in the game but are considered to win or lose along with the
rest of the group, depending on how they finish.
• If all players are eliminated, the game ends and the
players lose.
• If a player is eliminated partway through the
resolution of an ability, resolve the entire ability.
» If a player is eliminated in the middle of an attack,
that attack ends.
• Effects that refer to the players in the game ignore
eliminated players, except for the per player icon ().
See also: Ability, Deal, Engage, Game Element, Hit Points,
Identity, Minion, Per Player Icon, Player, Player Card, Player
Deck, Player’s Play Area, Winning the Game

PLAYER PHASE
During the player phase, each player (in player order) takes
one turn.
After each player has taken a turn, the players discard down
or draw up to their hand size and ready each exhausted
card.
• Effects that last "until the end of the [player] phase"
end after players draw up to their hand size and all
cards are readied. Then, effects that resolve "when/
after the player phase ends" are resolved.
See also: End of Player Phase, In Player Order, Player, Player
Turn

PLAYER SIDE SCHEME
Player side schemes are missions the heroes undertake
to facilitate defeating the villain. They are the player card
equivalent of the side schemes found in the encounter deck.
• When a player side scheme enters play, it is placed
next to the main scheme in the villain’s play area.
• Each player side scheme enters play with an amount
of threat on it equal to its starting threat value.
• The number of player side schemes in play at any
time is limited by the player side scheme limit.
• A player side scheme remains in play until either there
is no threat on it (which causes it to be defeated and
either discarded or, if it has the victory X keyword,
added to the victory display) or it is discarded due
to there being more player side schemes in play than
the limit.
• Any rules or card effects that refer to "schemes" or
"side schemes" also refer to player side schemes.
» Heroes and allies can remove threat from a player
side scheme by performing a basic thwart.
» Abilities that remove threat from "a scheme" or "a
side scheme" can remove threat from a player side
scheme.
See also: Card Types, Player Card, Player Side Scheme
Limit, Scheme (Card Type), Side Scheme, Victory X

PLAYER SIDE SCHEME LIMIT
The number of player side schemes in play at any time is
limited by the player side scheme limit.
• If one or two players started the game, the player
side scheme limit is one. If three or four players
started the game, the limit is two.
• If there are ever more player side schemes in play
than the limit, the first player chooses and discards
player side schemes until there are no longer more in
play than the limit.
• A player may play a player side scheme even while
at the player side scheme limit. If they do, they must
choose a player side scheme to discard. (The player
side scheme discarded this way is not considered
defeated.)
See also: Player Side Scheme

PLAYER TURN
During their turn, a player may perform the following
options, in any order. Each option, except "change form,"
may be performed as many times as the player is able, so
long as they are able to pay the required costs.
• Change form from hero to alter-ego, or from alterego to hero. This option may only be performed
once each turn.
• Play an ally, upgrade, support, or player side scheme
card from hand.
3
• Use their alter-ego’s basic recovery (if in alter-ego
form) or their hero’s basic attack or thwart power (if in
hero form).
• Use an ally card they control in play to attack an
enemy or thwart a scheme.
• Trigger an "Action" ability on:
a. A card in play they control.
b. An encounter card in play.
c. Any card in play with text that allows that player to
trigger its action ability.
d. An event card in their hand (by playing that event).
» If the action ability is preceded by "Hero" or "AlterEgo", the player must be in the specified form in
order to trigger the ability.
• Ask another player to trigger any "Action" ability
that player could trigger on their own turn. The other
player then decides whether or not to trigger the
ability. (Another player may offer to use an action
during the active player’s turn, as well.)
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Encounter Card, Event, Form,
Ownership and Control, Play, Player, Player Phase, Support,
Triggered Ability, Upgrade

PLAYER’S PLAY AREA
A player’s play area (also sometimes referred to as a
"player’s game area") is the area of play where a player’s
identity card, deck, hand, discard pile, and hit point dial are
located. Each player in the game has their own play area.
• Ally cards, support cards, and upgrade cards are
placed in a player’s play area when they enter play.
• Attachment cards attached to cards in the villain’s
play area are not in the player’s play area.
• Minion cards engaged with a player are in that
player’s play area and not in the villain’s play area.
• Obligation cards given to a player are in that player’s
play area and not in the villain’s play area.
• While card abilities can affect cards across play areas,
unless a game rule or card ability states otherwise,
cards cannot be played into another player’s play
area.
• If a player is eliminated from the game (through their
identity being defeated, or otherwise), their play area
is removed from the game.
See also: Ally, Discard Pile, Identity, In Play and Out of
Play, Minion, Obligation, Player Deck, Player Elimination,
Support, Upgrade

PLAYING CARDS
See: Initiating Abilities

PREVENT
Some card abilities prevent damage or threat.
• When damage is prevented, reduce the amount of
damage the target takes (i.e. the amount of damage
that is placed on the target).
» When an effect prevents damage dealt to a
character, the amount of damage that character
"takes" is reduced, but the amount of damage
"dealt" is not reduced.
» If an effect prevents all damage dealt to a
character, that character is not considered to have
taken damage.
» If all damage from an attack is prevented, the
attacking character is considered to have dealt
damage, but is not considered to have "attacked
and damaged" the attacked character.
» If dealing damage is a cost, that cost is considered
paid even if some or all of that damage is prevented.
» If taking damage is a cost, that cost is not
considered paid unless all of that damage was
taken. (If any of the damage is prevented, then the
cost has not been paid.)
• When threat is prevented, reduce the amount of threat
being assigned before it is placed on the scheme.
See also: Ability, Cost, Damage, Scheme (Card Type),
Target, Threat

PRINTED
The word "printed" refers to the text, characteristic, or value
that is physically printed on the card.
• If a player must pay a cost using "printed resources,"
they may use resources generated by a card’s ability,
so long as the icon(s) for the resource(s) that card
generates is printed in its text box.
» Wild resources () cannot be spent as other
resource types for such a cost.
See also: Base Value, Modifiers

QUALIFIERS
If ability text includes a qualifier followed by multiple terms,
the qualifier applies to each item in the list, if applicable.
For example, in the phrase "each ready character and
attachment" the word "ready" applies to both "character"
and "attachment."
3

QUICKSTRIKE
After a minion with the quickstrike keyword engages a
player whose identity is in hero form, that minion attacks
that player.
• The quickstrike keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Response (Hero): After this
minion engages a player, it attacks that player."
• If a minion with the quickstrike keyword is being
revealed, the quickstrike keyword resolves after
any "When Revealed" abilities on that minion are
resolved.
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Engage, Form,
Keywords, Minion, Player, Reminder Text, Reveal

RANGED
An attack with the ranged keyword ignores the retaliate
keyword.
• The ranged keyword is equivalent to the following
ability: "This attack ignores the retaliate keyword."
See also: Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player Ability
Type), Keywords, Reminder Text, Retaliate X

READY
Cards enter play in a ready state, positioned so that their
controller can read their text from left to right.
• If a player is instructed to ready an exhausted card,
the card is returned to its ready state.
» If there is an additional cost for a player to ready a
card, that player can choose not to pay that cost.
If they do not pay the cost, the card does not ready.
See also: Enters Play, Exhausted

REC
See: Basic Power, Recover, Recovery

RECOVER, RECOVERY
Recovery is a basic power a player can use in alter-ego form.
To recover, the player exhausts their alter-ego and heals a
number of hit points equal to their REC value.
• An identity that has no damage to heal cannot
perform a basic recovery.
See also: Basic Power, Form, Heal, Hit Points, Identity

REFERENTIAL ABILITY
Some abilities refer to specific cards by name. These are
called referential abilities. If an ability refers to a title
shared by multiple cards in the game, that ability refers
only to the card(s) that match the criteria highest in this
list:
1. The card on which the referential ability is printed.
» Such an ability is a self-referential ability.
» For example, the basic ally Spider-Man’s ability
reads: "Response: After Spider-Man attacks or
thwarts, choose another Web-Warrior character →
ready that character." This ability refers to the card
it is printed on and does not trigger when another
card called "Spider-Man" attacks or thwarts.
2. Cards associated with the same identity, including:
» The identity card
» Identity-specific cards
» The identity’s obligation cards
» The identity’s nemesis set
» Cards belonging to a side deck used by
the identity.
3. Player cards (if the ability is on a player card) or
encounter cards (if the ability is on an encounter card).
See also: Ability, Character, Classifications, Identity,
Identity-Specific Card

REMAINING HIT POINTS
A character’s remaining hit points is the amount of damage
that character can take before reaching zero hit points.
• An identity’s or villain’s hit point dial represents their
remaining hit points.
• To calculate remaining hit points for an ally or minion,
start with the character’s maximum hit points (as
indicated by its printed value modified by any card
abilities or game effects), and subtract their sustained
damage (the number of damage counters on them).
See also: Hit Points, Identity, Sustained Damage, Villain

REMINDER TEXT
Some card abilities may include reminder text. Reminder
text is italicized and in parentheses (like this). Reminder text
has no effect on the game and is only intended to remind a
player of a specific game function or rule.

REMOVED FROM THE GAME
A card that has been removed from the game is set aside
and does not interact with the game in any manner for the
duration of its removal. If there is no specified duration, a
card that has been removed from the game is considered
removed until the end of the game.
• "Removed from the game" is an out-of-play state.
• A card that has been removed from the game cannot
reenter the game through any means.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play

REPLACEMENT EFFECT
A replacement effect replaces a specified effect with a
different effect. Most replacement effects are interrupt
abilities in the format of "when [triggering condition] would
happen, do [replacement effect] instead."
• When an effect is replaced, it is no longer considered
imminent and no further interrupts or responses to
that effect can be triggered.
See also: Ability, Alteration Effect, Cancel, Interrupt,
"Otherwise", Triggered Ability, "Would"

REQUIREMENT (RESOURCES)
A card with the requirement keyword cannot be played
unless each resource of the specified type is spent while
paying for that card’s cost.
• The requirement (resources) keyword is equivalent
to the following constant ability: "When paying this
card’s resource cost, you must spend the following
resources: [resources]."
• A card with the requirement keyword cannot be
played "ignoring its resource cost" because the
required resources cannot be paid for it.
See also: Cost, Initiating Abilities, Keywords, Resource

RESOLVE
Effects, abilities, event cards, and treachery cards are each
resolved under the following conditions:
• An effect is resolved when it is applied to the game
state.
• An ability is resolved when it is triggered and one or
more of its effects resolve.
• An event card is resolved when it is played and one or
more of its abilities resolve.
• A treachery card is resolved when it is revealed and
one or more of its abilities resolve.
• Constant abilities are never considered resolved.
They are always active while the card they are on is in
play.
• Card types other than events and treacheries are not
considered resolved, though abilities on those other
card types can be resolved.
• If all of the effects of an ability are canceled, that
ability is not considered to have resolved.
• If all of the abilities of an event or treachery are
canceled, that card is not considered to have
resolved.
See also: Ability, Cancel, Event, Treachery

RESOURCE
Resources are used to pay the cost to play cards and to pay
certain ability costs.
• A player can generate resources to pay a cost by
discarding cards from their hand to generate the
resource or resources indicated at the bottom-left
corner of the card, or by using card abilities that
generate resources.
• There are four types of resources in the game:
energy (), mental (), and physical (), and wild ().
Wild resources can be used as their type or any of the
other types.
• To pay the cost of playing a card, a number of
resources equal to (or greater than) the card’s cost
must be generated. For most cards, any type (or mix
of types) of resources can be used to pay this cost.
• If an ability has a resource cost, a number of
resources equal to or greater than this cost must be
generated. Many abilities require specific resource
types, and the specified types in the specified
quantities must be generated in order to pay the cost
of the ability.
• Excess resources generated toward any cost are lost,
and do not carry over to future costs.
See also: Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental Resource,
Physical Resource, Wild Resource

RESOURCE ABILITY
A resource ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the bold "Resource" timing trigger.
• A resource ability can be triggered anytime the player
who controls the ability is generating resources to
pay a cost.
» A resource ability that generates a resource only
for a specific type of cost cannot be triggered
when paying a cost not of that type. (For example,
a resource ability that generates a resource for an
aspect card cannot be triggered when paying for a
non-aspect card.)
See also: Cost, Resource, Triggered Ability

RESOURCE CARD
Resource cards are a player card type. Their primary
function is to be discarded from a player’s hand to generate
resources.
These cards generally provide more (or more efficient)
resources than other card types when they are discarded
from a player’s hand to generate resources.
• Some resource cards have card text that is active
while using the card to generate resources.
• Resource cards are considered to be an extension
of an identity. If a player spends a resource, that
resource is also considered to be spent by that
player’s identity.
See also: Card Types, Energy Resource, Enters Play, Icons,
Identity, Leaves Play, Mental Resource, Physical Resource,
Player, Player Card, Resource, Wild Resource

RESOURCE TYPE
See: Resource

RESPONSE
A response ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the bold "Response" timing trigger. Response abilities may
be resolved after the specified triggering condition occurs,
as described in the response’s ability text.
• Players can only trigger response abilities on cards
they control or on encounter cards.
» Players cannot trigger response abilities on
obligations in other players’ play areas.
• Multiple responses may be triggered from the same
triggering condition, but each response may only
be triggered once per occurrence of the triggering
condition.
» Multiple copies of a card with a response can each
be triggered by the same triggering condition.
• If single effect causes multiple triggering conditions
to occur, responses to each of those triggering
conditions can be resolved in any order. (For
example, if an attack triggers both "after you attack"
and "after you defeat" responses, those responses
can be resolved in any order.)
• Once all players decide they do not wish to resolve
any (further) responses to a triggering condition,
(further) responses to that instance of that triggering
condition cannot be used.
See also: Ability, Triggered Ability, Triggering Condition

RESTRICTED
A player cannot have more than two cards with the
restricted keyword in play under their control at the same
time.
A player can play or put into play a restricted card even
if they already control two restricted cards. However, if
a player ever controls more than two restricted cards in
play, they must immediately choose and discard from play
restricted cards they control until they have only two in play.
• The restricted keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Response: After you
take control of this card, if you control more than
2 restricted cards, discard all but 2 of those cards."
See also: Discard, Keywords, Ownership and Control,
Player, Reminder Text

RETALIATE X
After a character with the retaliate X keyword is attacked,
deal X damage to the attacker. (X is the value next to the
retaliate keyword.)
• The retaliate X keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Response: After this
character is attacked, deal X damage to the attacker."
• The character with retaliate X must be in play after
the attack resolves to deal this damage.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Ability Type), Damage, Identity, Keywords, Minion,
Reminder Text, Villain

REVEAL
During step four of the villain phase, each player (in player
order) reveals and resolves all facedown encounter cards
that have been dealt to them, one card at a time in the
order in which they were dealt.
To reveal an encounter card, follow these steps:
1. Turn the encounter card faceup.
2. If the encounter card’s type is:
• Attachment: It enters play attached to the game
element specified by its "attach to" text. If it does not
have "attach to" text, place it on the table in front of
the player revealing it. (It is not in play.)
• Environment: It enters play in the villain’s play area.
• Minion: It enters play in the play area of the player
revealing it. It is considered to engage that player.
• Obligation: It enters play in the play area of the
player revealing it.
» If the card specifies a player to give it to, that player
is considered to be revealing it.
• Side scheme: It enters play in the villain’s play area.
• Treachery: Place it on the table in front of the player
revealing it. (It is not in play.)
• Other: Place it on the table in front of the player
revealing it. (It is not in play.)
3. Resolve each "When Revealed" ability on that card
(including those provided by keywords).
4. If the card is a treachery, discard it.
If a player is instructed by card text to reveal an encounter
card from the encounter deck or any other game area, this
same resolution procedure applies.
• Responses (both forced and non-forced) to any step
of the revealing of an encounter card are not resolved
until after all steps of the reveal process have been
completed.
See also: Attachment, Choose (Game Element), Choose
(Option), Deal, Encounter Card, Enters Play, Environment,
In Player Order, Minion, Obligation, Player, Side Scheme,
Treachery, Villain Phase

ROOKIE MODE
See: Modes of Play

ROUND STRUCTURE
See: Overview - Round Overview, End of the Player Phase,
Player Phase, Player Turn, Villain Phase

RUNNING OUT OF CARDS
See: Encounter Deck, Player Deck

SCENARIO-SPECIFIC CARD
Cards in the "scenario-specific" classification are cards that
belong to a scenario’s set of accompanying cards.
• A scenario must include each scenario-specific card
associated with that scenario. The exact quantity of
each card in that set is determined by the scenario.
• In most scenarios, the scenario-specific cards
are separated into three decks: the villain deck
(comprised of that scenario’s villain cards), the main
scheme deck (comprised of that scenario’s main
scheme cards), and the encounter deck (comprised of
that scenario’s attachment, environment, minion, side
scheme, and treachery cards).
• A scenario-specific card is designated by the name of
the scenario with which it is associated printed at the
bottom of the card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Main Scheme Deck, Villain Deck,
Appendix I: Deck Customization

SCH
See: Basic Power, Scheme (Enemy Activation)

SCHEME (CARD TYPE)
The word "scheme" denotes three different card types:
main schemes, player side schemes, and side schemes.
• If a card ability places threat on or removes threat
from "a scheme," the player resolving that ability
chooses which scheme—main scheme or side
schemes—that ability affects.
See also: Main Scheme, Player Side Scheme, Side Scheme

SCHEME (ENEMY ACTIVATION)
A scheme is a type of enemy activation. If an enemy is
instructed to scheme, follow these steps:
1. If a villain, or a minion with the villainous keyword, is
scheming, give it one facedown boost card from the
encounter deck. (If a minion without the villainous
keyword is scheming, skip this step.)
2. Resolve each of the scheming enemy’s boost cards,
one at a time and in the order in which they were dealt,
by doing the following:
a. Flip the boost card faceup.
b. Resolve any "Boost" abilities, indicated by the star
icon in the boost area. (All other abilities on the
boost card are ignored.)
c. Increase the scheming enemy’s SCH value by one
for each boost icon on the card.
d. Discard the boost card.
e. If the enemy has any boost cards remaining, repeat
these steps with the next boost card.
3. Place threat on the main scheme equal to the scheming
enemy’s modified SCH value.
See also: Activation, Boost, Minion, Modifiers, Villain, Villain
Phase, Villainous

SEARCH
When a player is instructed to search for a card, the player is
permitted to look at each of the cards in the searched area.
If the player finds a card that satisfies the criteria of the
search, the player adds that card to the game area indicated
by the instructions on the search effect.
• If a player finds multiple cards that satisfy the criteria
of a search, the player chooses among those options.
• Cards being searched are not considered to leave the
searched area.
• If any portion of a deck is searched, upon completion
of that game step, game function, or card ability,
shuffle that entire deck.
• If a player is instructed to "search [their] collection"
for a card, the player looks through all of their Marvel
Champions cards outside of the current game for the
specified card.
» They become the owner of that card until the end
of the game.
See also: Encounter Deck, Find, Player Deck, Shuffle

SELF-REFERENTIAL
See: Referential Ability

SET ASIDE, SET-ASIDE
Some game steps or card abilities instruct players to set
aside specific cards. Set-aside cards are out of play and
have no interaction with the game until they are referenced
by instructions within the scenario or by a card ability.
See also: Ability, In Play and Out of Play, Appendix II: Setup

SET ICON
The set icon is an indicator on a card of that card’s product
of origin, located in the card’s collector information at the
bottom of the card.
See also: Appendix III: Card Anatomy

SETUP (KEYWORD)
A card with the setup keyword begins the game in play.
• Cards with the setup keyword are put into play during
the "Put Setup Cards Into Play" step of setup.
See also: Keywords, Reminder Text, Appendix II: Setup

SETUP (TRIGGERED ABILITY)
"Setup" is a type of triggered ability that is resolved during
setup.
• Setup abilities are mandatory.
• Setup abilities on encounter cards are resolved during
the "Resolve Scenario Setup and When Revealed
Abilities" step of setup.
• Setup abilities on player cards are resolved during the
"Resolve Character Setup Abilities" step of setup.
See also: Triggered Ability, Appendix II: Setup

SHUFFLE
Shuffling is the game function of randomizing the contents
of a deck.
• If a player is instructed to shuffle a deck, that deck
must be randomized to the point where no player
within the game can ascertain the order of the cards
within that deck.
• Any time a deck is searched by a game step or card
ability, that deck is shuffled after the game step or
card ability completes its resolution.
See also: Encounter Deck, Player Deck, Search

SIDE SCHEME
Side scheme is an encounter card type that represents
additional obstacles and distractions the heroes are
confronted with.
If a side scheme is revealed, it enters play and is placed next
to the main scheme deck in the villain’s play area.
• Each side scheme enters play with an amount of
threat on it equal to the card’s starting threat value
(indicated at the bottom of the card).
• A side scheme remains in play until there is no threat
on it (which causes it to be defeated and discarded),
or until a card ability removes it from play. (Threat can
be removed from side schemes by using the thwart
power of heroes and allies, or by using card abilities.)
See also: Card Types, Defeat, Encounter Card, Enters Play,
Leaves Play, Main Scheme, Threat, Thwart, Villain’s Play Area

SIMULTANEOUS RESOLUTION
If two or more effects with the same bold timing trigger
would resolve simultaneously, the first player determines the
order in which the effects resolve.
See also: "Each Player", Triggered Ability

SKIRMISH MODE
See: Modes of Play

SPECIAL
A special ability is a type of triggered ability, indicated by
the bold "Special" timing trigger. Special abilities may only
be resolved through the explicit instruction of another card
ability.
See also: Triggered Ability

STALWART
A character that has the stalwart keyword cannot be
stunned or confused.
• The stalwart keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "This character cannot have
confused or stunned status cards."
• If a character gains the stalwart keyword while they
have a stunned and/or confused status card, each
stunned and/or confused status card is removed from
that character.
See also: Ally, Confuse, "Gains", Identity, Keywords,
Minion, Reminder Text, Status Cards, Stun, Villain

STANDARD MODE
See: Modes of Play

STANDARD SET
The standard set is an encounter set that is added to most
scenarios.
• The standard set is not a modular encounter set
and cannot be selected (by the players or randomly)
when a scenario requires players to choose a modular
encounter set to include in that scenario.
• Cards in the "Standard" classification are any cards
that have the word "Standard" printed by the bottom
of the card in its encounter set name area.
See also: Classifications, Appendix I: Deck Customization

STAR ICON ()
A star icon is used in conjunction with a
card’s stat or boost field to indicate
that there is a mandatory ability in the
text box that corresponds to that field. In and of itself, the
star icon has no effect; it is merely a reminder to check the
card’s text box whenever that field is used.
• If a star icon is located next to an enemy’s ATK or
SCH value, the icon serves as a reminder to check
that enemy’s text box whenever that enemy uses that
value to attack or scheme.
• If a star icon is located in the ATK or SCH field of an
attachment, the icon serves as a reminder to check
that attachment’s text box whenever the attached
enemy uses the value that field is modifying to attack
or scheme.

© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 173

TREACHERY
When Revealed: Choose to either
deal 1 damage to your hero for each
upgrade you control or choose and
discard an upgrade you control.
 Boost: If the villain is making an
undefended attack, choose and
discard an upgrade you control.
eleCTRiC whip aTTaCk

IRON MAN NEMESIS (3/5) 
• If a star icon is located next to an ally’s ATK or THW
value, the icon serves as a reminder to check that
ally’s text box whenever that ally uses that value to
attack or thwart.
• If a star icon is located next to a hero’s ATK, THW,
or DEF, or next to an alter-ego’s REC value, the icon
serves as a reminder to check that character’s text
box whenever they use that value to attack, thwart,
defend, or recover.
• If a game step or ability references a power with the
value of star (), that value is defined in that card’s
text. If it is not defined (for instance, if the card’s text
is blanked), that value is treated as 0.
• If a star icon is located in an encounter card’s boost
field, the icon serves as a reminder to check that
card’s text box whenever that card is turned face up
as a boost card during the villain’s activation.
See also: Activation, Ally, Attachment, Basic Power, Boost,
Identity, Minion, Non-Numerical Variable, Villain

STATUS CARDS
Status card represent different states a character may find
themselves in during the game.
The following status cards are used in the game. When a
character is given a status card, take a status card of the
specified type from the pool and place it on that character.
• A character cannot have more than one status card of
each type at a time.
» Characters with the steady keyword can have one
additional confused status card and one additional
stunned status card.
• Status card abilities have timing priority over all
conflicting triggered abilities.
The three status card types are:
Confused — A confused status card cancels a character’s
next scheme or thwart. See: Confuse, Confused.
Stunned — A stunned status card cancels a character’s next
attack. See: Stun, Stunned.
Tough — A tough status card prevents a character from
taking damage. See: Tough.
See also: Ally, Attack (Enemy Activation), Attack (Player
Ability Type), Basic Power, Damage, Form, Identity, Minion,
Replacement Effect, Triggered Ability, Villain

STEADY
A character with the steady keyword can have one
additional stunned status card and one additional confused
status card. That character is not stunned unless they have
two stunned status cards, and is not confused unless they
have two confused status cards. After that character’s
attack, scheme, or thwart is canceled by a status card effect,
remove all status cards of the corresponding type from that
character.
• The steady keyword is equivalent to the following
constant ability: "This character can have 1 additional
confused status card and 1 additional stunned status
card. While this character has fewer than 2 confused
status cards, it is not considered confused and
confused status cards on it do not resolve. While this
character has fewer than 2 stunned status cards, it is
not considered stunned and stunned status cards on
it do not resolve."
See also: Confuse, Keywords, Status Cards, Stun

STUN, STUNNED
Stun is a status that cancels a character’s next attack.
• A stunned status card resolves like the triggered
ability: "Forced Interrupt: When this character
would attack, remove each stunned status card
from it instead."
• If an ability "stuns" a character, give that character a
stunned status card.
• A character is stunned if it has a stunned status card.
» A character with the steady keyword is stunned
only if it has two stunned status cards.
• If a character has an ability stating that it "cannot be
stunned," stunned status cards cannot be placed on
that character.
• If a stunned identity or ally attempts to attack or use
an attack ability, discard the stunned card instead.
Costs associated with the attack attempt, including
exhausting the character, must still be paid.
» A stunned character can attempt to attack or use
an attack ability even if it has no valid target for an
attack.
• If a stunned villain or minion would attack, discard the
stunned status card instead.
• As the attack action or attack activation was replaced
by the removal of the stunned status card, that
character is not considered to have attacked.
See also: Ally, Cancel, Identity, Minion, Status Cards,
Target, Villain

SUBTITLE
Some ally cards have a subtitle beneath the title. A subtitle
represents an alternate alias a character sometimes uses.
See also: Unique Icon
4

SUPPORT
Support is a player card type that represent locations,
backline supporters or friends, and other behind-the-scenes
elements a hero or alter-ego might have at their disposal.
• Support cards enter play in the back row of a player’s
play area.
• A support card is active while it is in play, and it
remains in play until a card ability causes it to leave
play.
• Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities, and
triggered abilities that resolve from supports in play
under a player’s control are not considered to be
performed by that player’s identity.
See also: Card Types, Enters Play, In Play and Out of Play,
Leaves Play, Player Card, Player’s Play Area

SURGE
When an encounter card with this keyword is revealed,
the player resolving the card deals themself a facedown
encounter card from the top of the encounter deck.
• The surge keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "When Revealed: Deal yourself
1 facedown encounter card."
• Complete the process of resolving the original card,
as well as any response abilities that are triggered
by that card being revealed, before revealing the
additional card.
See also: Encounter Card, Encounter Deck, Keywords,
Reminder Text, Reveal

SUSTAINED DAMAGE
Sustained damage refers to the difference between a
character’s maximum hit points and remaining hit points.
• To calculate sustained damage for an identity or
villain (using a hit point dial), start with the character’s
maximum hit points (as indicated by its printed value
modified by any card abilities or game effects), and
subtract their remaining hit points (as indicated by the
dial).
• Sustained damage on an ally or minion is equal to the
total value of all damage tokens on the card.
See also: Ally, Damage, Hit Points, Identity, Maximum Hit
Points, Remaining Hit Points, Villain

"SWAP"
An instruction to "swap" two components means to
exchange the location of those two components.
• A swap cannot be completed if there is not a
component in both locations.
» For example, you cannot "swap a card in your hand
with the top card of your deck" if you have no cards
in hand.
• Swapped cards maintain the orientation (such as
ready or exhausted, faceup or facedown) of the
original card.
• Swapping a card in hand with the top card of a deck
is not considered drawing that card.
• When swapping a card in a play area with a card in an
out-of-play area, if those two cards:
» Share a title, neither card is considered to enter or
leave play. Tokens, attached cards, tucked cards,
and status cards on the previously in-play card are
transferred to the other card and the other card
maintains the state (ready or exhausted) of the
previously in-play card. If the swapped card has an
associated hit point dial, that dial remains at the
same value.
» Do not share a title, the in-play card is considered
to leave play and the out-of-play card is considered
to enter play. Tokens, attached cards, tucked cards,
and status cards on the previously in-play card are
not transferred to the other card and the other
card enters play ready. If the swapped card has an
associated hit point dial, that dial is reset to the
new card’s printed hit point value.
See also: Ability, Target

TABLE TALK
Players are permitted and encouraged to talk to one
another during play, and to work as a team to plan and
execute the best course of action. Players can discuss
anything they would like, including cards in play and cards
in their hand. Players are not obligated to disclose the cards
in their hand if they do not wish to do so.
• While resolving an encounter card with the peril
keyword, players are not permitted to consult with
one another.
See also: Keywords, Peril, Player

TARGET
If a game function or card ability is directed toward a game
element (such as an attack that deals damage to an enemy),
that game element becomes the target of that function
or ability for the duration of that function’s or ability’s
resolution.
• Examples of targets include but are not limited to:
"the villain," "a minion," "an enemy," "a scheme,"
"a hero," "an ally," "a character," "a player," "you,"
"a card."
• If an ability or game function requires one or more
targets, that ability or game function can only
be initiated if it has at least one valid target. For
example, an ability that says "deal 5 damage to a
minion" cannot be initiated if there are no minions in
play.
» Basic powers are game functions that require a
valid target.
» The phrase "choose a [game element]" indicates
that one or more targets must be selected in order
for an ability to initiate.
» Abilities that cause a player to draw one or more
cards always have a valid target so long as that
player has at least one card in their deck.
• A target is valid for an ability or game function if any
part of that ability can affect that target.
» Examples of effects on a target include but are
not limited to: dealing/healing damage, adding/
removing threat, giving/removing a status card,
exhausting/readying the target, defeating/
discarding the target.
» Exception: A character with an ATK, SCH, or THW
of 0 can perform an activation or basic power using
that value against a target that is otherwise valid for
that activation or basic power. (For example, a hero
with a THW of 0 can perform a basic thwart against
a scheme with threat on it.)
» The cost of an ability or game function is not
considered when determining if that ability or
game function can affect a target.
» If an ability or game function has multiple effects
on its target, the target is valid if at least one of
those effects can affect the target.
» A target is not valid for an ability if that ability
would cause the target to perform a game function
that another ability says the target cannot perform.
For example, a character with an attachment that
says "attached character cannot ready" is not a
valid target for a card that readies a character.
» Damage that is dealt but not taken (for example, if
the damage is prevented) is considered to affect a
target.
» A target that "cannot take damage" is not a valid
target for an ability or game function whose only
effect on that target is to deal it damage.
» A target that cannot be attacked is not a valid
target for an attack-labeled ability.
» A target that cannot be thwarted is not a valid
target for a thwart-labeled ability.
• An ability or game function that targets multiple
game elements of a specific type (for example, "each
enemy") can be initiated as along as at least one of
those game elements is a valid target.
» That ability or game function does not resolve
against any of those game elements that is not a
valid target.
» For example, the crisis () icon prevents threat
from being removed from the main scheme.
An ability that says "remove 1 threat from each
scheme" can be used while there is a crisis icon in
play if there is at least 1 scheme from which threat
can be removed. In this case, no threat would be
removed from the main scheme.
• An ability that refers to a future target (i.e. "the next
card you play") does not require a target to initiate.
• An ability with a search effect requires only a
searchable game area in order to initiate.
See also: Ability, Choose (Game Element), Cost, Game
Element, Labeled Ability

TARGET THREAT
Target threat is the amount of threat required for the main
scheme deck to advance. It is located in the upper left
corner of the card, before the title.
See also: Main Scheme, Threat

TEAM-UP
The team-up keyword names two characters. In order for a
player to include a card with the team-up keyword in their
deck, that player’s chosen identity must match one of the
named characters. Additionally, a card with the team-up
keyword cannot be played unless both of the named
friendly characters (identity or ally) are in play.
• The team-up (name 1 and name 2) keyword is
equivalent to the following constant ability: "You
cannot include this card in your deck unless your
alter-ego or hero title matches name 1 or name 2.
You cannot play this card unless there is a friendly
character in play whose title or subtitle matches
name 1 and a friendly character in play whose title or
subtitle matches name 2."
• An ally counts as a named character if either its title
or subtitle matches the named character.
See also: Ally, Identity, In Play and Out of Play, Keywords,
Play, Reminder Text, Appendix I: Deck Customization

TEAMWORK (TRAIT)
After a minion with teamwork enters play and engages a
player, if there is at least one other minion that shares the
specified trait in play, the minion that just entered play
activates against the player it is engaged with.
• The teamwork (trait) keyword is equivalent to the
following triggered ability: "Forced Response: After
this minion enters play, if there is another Trait minion
in play, this minion activates against the engaged
player."
• If a minion with the teamwork keyword is being
revealed, the teamwork keyword resolves after
any "When Revealed" abilities on that minion are
resolved.
See also: Activation, Engage, Keywords

TEMPORARY
A card with temporary must be discarded from play at the
end of the round.
• The temporary keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Interrupt: When the round
ends, discard this card from play."
See also: Keywords

TEXT BOX
The text box of a card is the area of a card that contains the
card’s printed abilities, traits, and flavor text (if any).
• If a card ability references a card’s "text box," that
ability only references the printed abilities within that
card’s text box.
» Icons printed within a card’s text box are
considered abilities within that text box.
See also: Ability, Printed, Traits, Appendix III:
Card Anatomy

"THAT"
See: Alteration Effect, Target

"THEN"
If the effect text of an ability includes the word "then",
the text preceding the word "then" must be fully true or
resolved before the remainder of the effect described after
the word "then" can be resolved.
• If the pre-"then" text of an effect fully resolves,
the post-"then" text of the effect must also
attempt to resolve.
• If the pre-"then" text of an effect does not fully
resolve, the post-"then" text does not attempt to
resolve.

"THIS"
See: Alteration Effect

THREAT
Threat tokens are used to track the amount
of threat on scheme cards.
See also: Component Limitations, Scheme
(Card Type), Scheme (Enemy Activation),
Main Scheme, Side Scheme, Prevent, Thwart

THW
See: Basic Power, Thwart

THWART
Some game effects and card abilities reference a thwart
attempt. There are a few different ways this can occur:
• A hero or ally can use their basic thwart power to
thwart a scheme. A character must exhaust to use this
power. This removes threat equal to the character’s
THW value from the scheme.
» A character can only initiate a basic thwart if
there is a scheme with at least one threat for the
character to remove or if that character is confused.
» An ability that allows a hero or ally to "make a basic
thwart without exhausting" can allow an exhausted
character to make a thwart attempt.
• If a triggered ability is labeled as a thwart—such
as "Hero Action (thwart)"—resolving that ability is
considered to thwart the specified scheme. Unless
specified by the ability’s text, a hero does not exhaust
when using such an ability.
» An ability labeled as a thwart is considered a
single thwart, even if that thwart removes multiple
instances of threat.
» If an ability increases the amount of threat an
ability labeled as a thwart removes and that ability
removes multiple instances of threat, each of those
instances that does not use the word "additional" is
increased by the specified amount.
See also: Ally, Basic Power, Consequential Damage,
Exhausted, Labeled Ability, Main Scheme, Modifiers, Side
Scheme, Threat

TIMING
See: Ability, Interrupt, Response, "Would"

TOUGH
Tough is a status that prevents a character from taking
damage.
• A tough status card resolves like the triggered ability:
"Forced Interrupt: When this character would take
damage, remove a tough status card from it instead."
• If a character with a tough status card would take
any amount of damage, prevent all of that damage
and discard a tough status card from that character
instead.
» A character with multiple tough status cards
discards only one tough status card each time it
would take damage.
» When a hero with a tough status card defends an
attack, they reduce the damage from the attack by
their DEF first. If the damage is reduced to 0, the
hero does not lose their tough status card.
• As a tough status card prevents damage fully, the
character who had the tough status card is not
considered to have taken damage.
See also: Damage, Overkill, Status Cards, Toughness
4

TOUGHNESS
When a character with the toughness keyword enters play,
place a tough status card on it.
• The toughness keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Response: After this
character enters play, give it a tough status card."
See also: Ally, Enters Play, Identity, Keywords, Minion,
Reminder Text, Status Cards, Villain

TRAITS
Many cards have one or more traits listed at the top of the
text box and printed in bold italics.
• Traits have no inherent effects on the game. Instead,
some card abilities reference cards that possess or
lack specific traits.
• Traits are not considered to be part of a card’s
printed text box for the purpose of card abilities.
See also: Printed, Appendix III: Card Anatomy

TREACHERY
Treachery is an encounter card type that represent tactics,
tricks, disasters, and other immediate occurrences that
confront players during a scenario.
• If a treachery card is revealed from the encounter
deck, the player revealing the card must resolve its
effects.
• After resolving the effects of a treachery card (or the
effects are canceled), place the card in the encounter
discard pile.
» If a treachery causes one or more enemies to
activate as its last effect, that treachery card is
considered resolved and is discarded after all of
those activations have resolved.
See also: Card Types, Discard, Encounter Card, Encounter
Deck, Reveal, Villain

TRIGGERED ABILITY
A triggered ability is indicated by a bold timing trigger
followed by a colon and the rest of the ability text.
See also: Ability, Action, Forced, Interrupt, Resource
Ability, Response, Setup (Triggered Ability), Simultaneous
Resolution, Special, Triggering Condition, When Defeated
Abilities, When Revealed Abilities

TRIGGERING CONDITION
A triggering condition is a specific occurrence that takes
place in the game. On card abilities, the triggering
condition is the element of the ability that references
such an occurrence, indicating the timing point at which
the ability may be used. The description of an ability’s
triggering condition usually follows the word "when" or
"after."
• Each "Interrupt" and "Response" ability can only
be triggered once per occurrence of its triggering
condition.
» Multiple copies of a card with an interrupt or
response can each be triggered by the same
triggering condition.
• If a single game occurrence creates multiple
triggering conditions (such as a single attack causing
a character to both take damage and be defeated),
those triggering conditions are handled with a single
interrupt window and a single response window.
During each of these windows, abilities that refer
to any of the triggering conditions created by the
occurrence may be used in any order.
See also: Interrupt, Response

TUCK
When a player is instructed to tuck a card under another
card, they place the tucked card faceup under the other
card.
• Tucked cards are not in play and are not considered
"attached" to the card under which they are tucked.
• When a card leaves play, each card tucked under it is
discarded.
See also: In Play and Out of Play

UNDEFENDED
See: Attack (Enemy Activation)

UNIQUE ICON ()
The unique icon indicates a card that represents a singular
person, place, or thing within the Marvel universe.
• Two unique cards are considered to "match" if any of
the following apply:
» The two cards share a title, and both have no
subtitle and no alter-ego title. (For example, two
copies of the Jarnbjorn upgrade, or the Jessica
Jones ally and the Jessica Jones minion.)
» The subtitle or alter-ego title of one matches the
title, subtitle, or alter-ego title of the other. (For
example, the identity with the T’Challa alter-ego,
the T’Challa ally, and the Black Panther ally with the
subtitle "T’Challa" are all considered to match.)
• During deckbuilding, a player cannot include multiple
matching cards in their deck. The identity is included
in this evaluation.
» Once setup for a game has begun, a player is not
prevented from adding matching cards to their
deck through game effects.
• When choosing identities during setup, players
cannot choose identities that match.
» The players may choose a scenario even if one or
more villains match one or more chosen identities.
4
• A non-villain card in an out-of-play state that matches
a card in play cannot enter play. If the out-of-play
card is:
» A player card, it cannot be played or put into play.
Any effect that attempts to do so has no effect.
» A non-villain encounter card, it is discarded and
any effects of it entering play are ignored. If it was
being revealed, any effects of it being revealed
are ignored and the player revealing it is dealt a
facedown encounter card.
See also: Ally, Enters Play, Identity, Minion, Player, Subtitle,
Villain, Appendix I: Deck Customization

UPGRADE
Upgrade is a player card type that represents powers,
attacks, equipment, and other assets that are (in most cases)
at an identity’s immediate disposal.
• An upgrade is active so long as it is in play, and it
remains in play until a card ability causes it to leave
play.
• Most upgrade cards enter play near a player’s identity
card, and modify the player’s hero or alter-ego (or
both).
• Some upgrades enter play and "attach to" another
card. These upgrades modify the card they are
attached to, not the hero or alter-ego of the player
who played the upgrade.
» A player controls any upgrades attached to
characters they control, including upgrades owned
by another player.
• Unless attached to a different friendly character,
upgrade cards are considered to be an extension
of the controlling player’s identity. Attacks, thwarts,
defenses, action abilities, and triggered abilities that
resolve on such upgrades are also considered to be
resolved by that player’s identity.
See also: Attach To, Card Types, Enters Play, Identity, In
Play and Out of Play, Leaves Play, Ownership and Control,
Player Card, Player’s Play Area

USES (X "TYPE")
When a card with this keyword enters play, place X allpurpose counters from the token pool on the card. The
word following the value establishes and identifies the type
of uses the card holds.
Each card with this keyword also has an ability that
references the type of use established by the keyword as
part of the cost.
When the last all-purpose counter is removed from a card
with uses, discard that card.
• The uses (X "type") keyword is equivalent to the
following constant ability: "This card enters play with
X all-purpose counters. These are ‘type counters.’
If there are no all-purpose counters on this card,
discard this card."
See also: All-Purpose Counter, Discard, Enters Play,
Keywords, Leaves Play, Reminder Text

VALID TARGET
See: Target

VICTORY DISPLAY
The victory display is an out-of-play game area shared by
all players. Cards in the victory display follow the standard
rules for out-of-play cards.
See also: In Play and Out of Play, Player, Victory X

VICTORY X
When a card with the victory X keyword leaves play under
the following conditions, place it in the victory display
instead of its owner’s discard pile:
• The victory X keyword is equivalent to the following
ability based on the card with the keyword:
» Character or side scheme: "When Defeated: Add
this card to the victory display."
» Attachment: "Forced Interrupt: When the
attached card is defeated, add this card to the
victory display."
» Card with the uses (X "type") keyword: "If there are
no all-purpose counters on this card, add this card
to the victory display instead of discarding it."
• A character or side scheme with the victory X
keyword is placed in the victory display when it is
defeated.
• An attachment or upgrade with the victory X keyword
is placed in the victory display when the card to which
it is attached is defeated. (The card the attachment or
upgrade was attached to is discarded as normal.)
• A card with both the victory X and uses (X "type")
keywords is placed in the victory display when its last
all-purpose counter is removed from it.
While in the victory display, X indicates how many victory
points that card is worth. (X is the value next to the victory
keyword.)
• Some scenarios or campaigns may count the number
of victory points in the victory display.
See also: Defeat, Discard Pile, Keywords, Reminder Text,
Uses (X "Type"), Victory Display

VILLAIN, VILLAIN DECK
Villain is an encounter card type that represents the primary
enemy the players are attempting to defeat in a scenario.
The villain is represented by a sequential deck of one or
more cards. The players defeat the villain by reducing the
hit points of each stage of the villain deck to zero.
• Villain cards cannot be discarded from play.
See also: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Scheme
(Enemy Activation), Villain Defeat

VILLAIN DEFEAT
If the villain’s hit point dial is reduced to zero, the players
have defeated that stage of the villain.
Remove the current stage of the villain deck from the game.
The next sequential stage of the villain deck is revealed. Set
the villain’s hit point dial as indicated by that stage.
If the final stage of the villain deck is defeated, the
players win the game.
• The revealing of a villain cannot be canceled.
• Excess damage that is dealt to defeat a villain stage
does not carry over to the new stage.
• If the new stage of the villain has the same title as the
previous stage:
» The new stage of the villain is considered the same
character as the defeated stage for purposes of
card abilities (such as the retaliate X keyword).
» Attachments, upgrades, status cards, counters, and
non-damage tokens on a villain carry over to the
new stage.
» If the villain was defeated while activating, the
villain resumes that activation using the new villain
stage.
• If the new stage of the villain has a different title from
the previous stage:
» The new stage of the villain not is considered the
same character as the defeated stage for purposes
of card abilities.
» Attachments, upgrades, status cards, counters, and
non-damage tokens do not carry over to the new
stage.
» If the villain was defeated while activating, the
activation ends without resolving.
See also: All-Purpose Counter, Attachment, Damage,
Defeat, Excess Damage, Hit Points, Status Cards, Villain

VILLAIN PHASE
The steps of the villain phase are:
1. Place Threat. Place the amount of threat indicated in
the main scheme’s acceleration field onto that scheme.
If any acceleration icons or tokens are active, additional
threat equal to the number of such icons and tokens is
also placed at this time.
2. Enemies Activate. In player order, each player resolves
the following:
a. The villain activates against the player.
b. Each minion engaged with the player activates
against them, in the order of that player’s choice.
3. Deal Encounter Cards. Deal one encounter card to
each player. Deal one additional card for each hazard
icon on a card in play. These additional cards are dealt
in player order.
4. Reveal Encounter Cards. The first player reveals each
of their encounter cards, one card at a time in the order
in which they were dealt, resolving each card based on
its card type. Each player repeats this process in player
order, until no dealt encounter cards remain.
5. Pass First Player Token. Pass the first player token to
the next clockwise player.
6. End of Villain Phase and Round.
a. Any effects that last "until the end of the [villain]
phase" or "until the end of the round" end.
b. Resolve any "when/after the [villain] phase ends"
or "when/after the round ends" effects.
See also: Acceleration Icon, Activation, Attack (Enemy
Activation), Deal, Engage, Find, Hazard Icon, In Player
Order, Main Scheme, Minion, Player, Reveal, Scheme
(Enemy Activation), Threat, Villain

VILLAIN’S PLAY AREA
The villain’s play area (also sometimes referred to as the
"villain’s game area") is the area of play where the villain
deck, the main scheme deck, the encounter deck, the
encounter discard pile, and the villain’s hit point dial are
located.
• Environment cards and side scheme cards are placed
in the villain’s play area when they enter play.
• Attachment cards attached to cards in the villain’s
play area are in the villain’s play area. Attachment
cards attached to cards in a player’s play area are not
in the villain’s play area.
• Minion cards engaged with a player are in that
player’s play area and not in the villain’s play area.
• Obligation cards given to a player are in that player’s
play area and not in the villain’s play area.
See also: Attachment, Discard Pile, Encounter Deck,
Environment, In Play and Out of Play, Main Scheme, Minion,
Obligation, Villain

VILLAINOUS
When a character with the villainous keyword uses a basic
power, give it a facedown boost card from the top of the
encounter deck. When resolving that basic power, turn the
boost card faceup, resolve any boost ability on that card,
and apply its boost icons to the character’s stats for this use.
Discard the boost card after it is resolved.
• The villainous keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Interrupt: When this
character uses a basic power, give it a boost card."
• If a boost ability on a boost card dealt to a character
refers to "the villain," that ability still applies to the
villain (even if another type of character is resolving
it).
See also: Activation, Attack (Enemy Activation), Boost,
Discard, Keywords, Minion, Reminder Text, Scheme (Enemy
Activation)

VULNERABLE
When a character with vulnerable becomes confused or
stunned, that character is immediately discarded (without
being defeated).
• The vulnerable keyword is equivalent to the following
triggered ability: "Forced Interrupt: When this
character becomes confused or stunned, discard it."
• If a character with the vulnerable keyword would
simultaneously take enough damage to defeat it and
become either confused or stunned, it is discarded
before the damage is applied and is not considered
defeated.
• If a character has both the steady and vulnerable
keywords, the vulnerable keyword does not take
effect until that character has two confused or two
stunned status cards.
See also: Confuse, Steady, Stun

WHEN COMPLETED ABILITIES
A when completed ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold "When Completed" timing trigger.
When a main scheme is complete, all "When Completed"
abilities on the card resolve.
• The "When Completed" timing trigger is equivalent
to the following trigger: "Forced Interrupt: When
this scheme is completed..."
See also: Main Scheme

WHEN DEFEATED ABILITIES
A when defeated ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold "When Defeated" timing trigger.
• The "When Defeated" timing trigger is equivalent to
the following trigger: "Forced Interrupt: When this
card is defeated..."
• When a villain stage, side scheme, main scheme
stage, ally, or minion is defeated, all "When
Defeated" abilities on the card resolve.
» A defeated card leaves play after its "When
Defeated" ability is resolved, if any.
See also: Ally, Defeat, Main Scheme, Minion, Side Scheme,
Triggered Ability, Villain

WHEN REVEALED ABILITIES
A when revealed ability is a type of triggered ability,
indicated by the bold "When Revealed" timing trigger.
When a player reveals a card from the encounter deck,
a new scheme stage, or a new villain stage, all "When
Revealed" abilities on the card resolve.
• If an encounter card with a "When Revealed" ability
enters play during setup, resolve that ability during
the "Resolve Scenario Setup and When Revealed
Abilities" step.
• If an encounter card with a "When Revealed" ability
is put into play without being revealed, the "When
Revealed" ability does not trigger.
• "When Revealed" abilities on villain and main
scheme cards cannot be canceled.
See also: Choose (Game Element), Encounter Card, Main
Scheme, Triggered Ability, Villain, Appendix II: Setup

WILD RESOURCE ()
A wild resource () is one of the four types of resources.
• Wild resources can be spent to pay the resource cost
of cards and abilities. When a player generates a wild
resource (), they may specify which resource type
(energy, mental, physical, or wild) it is being used as.
» When a card that generates a wild resource has its
resources doubled, each of its wild resources can
be declared a different type.
• Some card abilities specifically require wild resources
to be spent in order to resolve their effects.
• When resources are not being generated for a cost, a
wild resource does not have any characteristic other
than "wild resource." In such contexts, wild resources
cannot be interpreted as any of the other resource
types.
See also: Ability, Cost, Energy Resource, Icons, Mental
Resource, Physical Resource, Resource

WINNING THE GAME
If the final villain stage is defeated, the players win the
game. If the final stage of the main scheme deck is
completed, the villain wins the game.
• Some scenarios have alternate win or loss conditions.
If these conditions are met, the players win or lose
accordingly.
» Alternate win or loss conditions cannot be blanked
or canceled.

"WOULD"
The word "would" is used to define the triggering condition
of some interrupt abilities, and establishes a higher timing
priority for those abilities than interrupts to the same
triggering condition without the word "would."
• If an interrupt to a triggering condition that would
occur changes the nature of that which is about to
occur (such as through a replacement effect), no
further interrupts to the original trigger may be used
since the resolution of that trigger is no longer valid.
For example, an interrupt that states "when a character
would be defeated" triggers before an interrupt that states
"when a character is defeated."
See also: Interrupt, Replacement Effect, Triggered Ability

"X" (VALUE)
See: Non-Numerical Variable

YOU, YOUR
While resolving card abilities, if the word "you" can be
resolved as referring to the player’s identity, it must be
resolved as such. This includes but is not limited to:
• If a sentence uses "you" and/or "your" multiple
times, all instances in that sentence refer to the same
identity or player.
• If a card deals damage to "you," or "you" take
damage, the player resolving that damage applies it
to the hit point dial of their identity.
• If a card ability deals indirect damage to "you," or
"you" take indirect damage, the player resolving that
damage can assign that damage to characters in play
under their control.
• If a card ability exhausts "you," the player resolving
that card ability exhausts their identity.
• If a card ability places a status card on "you" (such
as "you are stunned"), the player resolving that card
ability places that status card on their identity.
• If a card ability triggers from a game function that
"you" perform (such as "after you attack and defeat
an enemy"), the player resolving that card ability must
resolve that card ability as if the identity they control
performed that game function, if able. (For example,
if an ability triggers "after you attack and defeat
a minion," it triggers after the controlling player’s
identity attacks and defeats a minion but not when an
ally under that player’s control attacks and defeats a
minion.)
• Exception: For abilities that trigger "after [enemy]
attacks you," "you" refers to the attacked player, even
if that player defended with an ally.
While resolving card abilities, if the word "you" cannot
be resolved as referring to the player’s identity, it must be
resolved as referring to the player. This includes but is not
limited to:
• If a game step or card ability discards cards from
"your" hand, the player resolving that game step or
card ability discards the cards from their hand.
• If a card ability searches "your" deck, the player
resolving that ability searches for cards in their deck.
• If a game step or card ability performs a game
function against a non-identity card "you" control
(such as exhausting, discarding, setting aside, etc.),
the player resolving that game step or card ability
performs that game function against the card in their
play area.
• If a card ability triggers from a game function that
"you" perform and cannot be interpreted in such a
way that would refer to the resolving player’s identity
(such as "after you discard cards from your hand"),
the player resolving that card ability must personally
resolve and perform the game function(s) of that
ability.
Some player cards are considered to be an extension of a
player’s identity. When an action and/or ability is resolved
on a card type that is an extension of an identity, that
action and/or ability is considered to be performed by that
identity.
Cards that are considered to be an extension of a player’s
identity are:
• Events — Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from a player
playing an event are also considered to be performed
by that player’s identity.
• Resources — Attacks, thwarts, defenses, and
triggered abilities that resolve from a player spending
a resource card are also considered to be performed
by that player’s identity.
• Upgrades — Unless attached to a different friendly
character, upgrade cards are considered to be an
extension of the controlling player’s identity. Attacks,
thwarts, defenses, action abilities, and triggered
abilities that resolve on such upgrades are also
considered to be resolved by that player’s identity.
Cards that are not considered to be an extension of a
player’s identity are:
• Allies — Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action abilities,
and triggered abilities that resolve from allies in play
under a player’s control are not considered to be
performed by that player’s identity.
• Encounter cards — Triggered abilities that resolve
from encounter cards are not considered to be
performed by that player’s identity, whether those
abilities are optional or forced.
• Player Side Schemes — Triggered abilities that
resolve from player side schemes in play under a
player’s control are not considered to be performed
by that player’s identity.
• Supports — Attacks, thwarts, defenses, action
abilities, and triggered abilities that resolve from
supports in play under a player’s control are not
considered to be performed by that player’s identity.
See also: Ability, Ally, Event, Identity, Player, Player Card,
Player Deck, Player’s Play Area, Resource, Support, Upgrade