APPENDIX I: DECK
CUSTOMIZATION
PLAYER DECKS
The deck customization rules for player decks are:
• A player must choose exactly one identity card.
• A player’s deck consists of a minimum of 40 cards and
a maximum of 50 cards. The identity card and any
cards with the permanent keyword are not counted as
part of this number.
• A player’s deck must include each of the identityspecific cards associated with their chosen identity
card. The exact quantity of each card included in that
identity set must be included in the deck.
» If a player’s deck includes an identity-specific card
that is considered to “match” (according to the
rules for uniqueness; see Unique Icon) an identity
chosen by another player during setup, that player
may replace the matching card in their deck with a
card with the Team-Up keyword that names both
their own identity and the other player’s identity.
• A player may choose exactly one aspect (Justice,
Aggression, Protection, or Leadership) to use for
customization. The remainder of their deck is then
customized with cards that belong to that aspect and/
or basic cards.
• No more than three copies (by title) of each nonunique card may be included in the deck.
• A player deck cannot include multiple cards that are
considered to “match” under the rules for uniqueness
(see Unique Icon). The identity is included in this
evaluation.
• Any “deckbuilding requirements” on the player’s
identity card must be followed.
ENCOUNTER DECKS
Each scenario comes with a recommended list of card sets
that form the default encounter deck for that scenario. (For
the core set scenarios, these lists are on page 23 of the
Learn to Play.) This recommended list can be modified in a
few different ways:
• Expert mode is an option that can be used to
increase the difficulty of a scenario. Expert mode uses
a different combination of villain stages and adds the
expert encounter set to the encounter deck.
• Most scenarios (including all of the scenarios in the
core set) include a modular encounter set within their
recommended list. To customize a scenario for a
different experience, remove the modular encounter
set from the list, and add any other modular
encounter set as desired.
• It is possible to add multiple modular sets to a
scenario, but this will dilute the encounter deck if too
many are added.
• To add an additional element of uncertainty to a
scenario, the modular set may be chosen from a
group of facedown sets, and shuffled directly into the
encounter deck without looking at the cards.
50 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
APPENDIX II: SETUP
To set up a game, perform the following steps in order:
1. Select Identities. Each player selects one identity,
placing their alter-ego side face up.
2. Set Hit Points. Each player sets their hit point dial
equal to the starting hit points of their character, found
at the bottom of their identity card.
3. Select First Player. As a group, the players select a
first player and place the first player token in front of
that player.
4. Set Aside Obligations. For each identity being
played, set aside their obligation card.
5. Set Aside Nemesis Sets. For each identity being
played, set aside their nemesis and the encounter cards
of that nemesis.
6. Shuffle Player Decks. Each player shuffles their player
deck.
7. Collect Tokens and Status Cards. Collect a pool of
damage tokens, threat tokens, acceleration tokens, and
all-purpose counters within reach of each player. Place
stacks of stunned, confused, and tough status cards
near this pool.
8. Select Scenario. Select a scenario and put its villain
deck and main scheme deck into play near the center
of the play area.
9. Set the Villain’s Hit Points. Set the villain’s hit point
dial to the value indicated by the villain card.
10. Create the Encounter Deck. Shuffle the encounter
sets listed on side 1A of the main scheme card with the
obligation cards set aside during setup step four to
create the encounter deck.
11. Put Setup Cards Into Play. Search each deck and the
set aside area for any cards with the setup keyword and
put them into play.
12. Resolve Scenario Setup and When Revealed
Abilities.
a. Resolve any “Setup” abilities on main scheme
card 1A.
b. Flip the main scheme card to side 1B and resolve
any “When Revealed” abilities on that side.
c. Resolve any “Setup” and “When Revealed”
abilities on the villain.
13. Campaign Setup. If playing in campaign mode,
resolve the Setup campaign instructions listed for the
scenario in its associated rulebook.
14. Draw Cards. Each player draws cards from their deck
until they have cards equal in number to their hand size
(including modifiers), as listed near the bottom of their
identity card.
15. Resolve Mulligans. Each player may discard any
number of cards from hand, and then draw up to their
starting hand size. (Do not shuffle these discarded
cards back into their decks at this time.)
16. Resolve Player Setup Abilities. Resolve any “Setup”
abilities on player cards in play.
The game is now ready to begin.
51 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
APPENDIX III:
CARD ANATOMY
This section presents an anatomy of each card type. Player
cards are detailed first, followed by encounter cards.
PL AYER C ARD
ANATOMY KEY
1. Title. The name of this card.
2. Card Type. Indicates how this card behaves or
may be used in the game.
3. Traits. Flavorful attributes that may be
referenced by card abilities.
4. Ability. This card’s specialized means of
interacting with the game.
5. Cost. The resource cost to play this card.
6. Hit Points. A value that represents this card’s
durability.
7. Resources. The resources this card generates
when it is discarded from hand.
8. Deckbuilding Classification. Indicates if this card
is exclusive to a hero, belongs to an aspect, or is a
basic card.
9. THW. How effective this character is at
opposing enemy schemes.
10. ATK. How effective this character is when it
attacks.
11. DEF. How effective this character is when it
defends.
12. REC. How effective this alter-ego is at
recovering damage.
13. Consequential Damage. The amount of damage
this ally takes after it is used for this power.
14. Hand Size. The number of cards this card’s
controller resets their hand to each round.
15. Collector Information. Indicates this card’s
product of origin (indicated by its set icon) and
card number within that product.
16. Unique Icon. Indicates that the card is unique.
17. Subtitle. Indicates an alternate identity an ally
might possess.
ALLY
UPGRADE
 © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 58
ALLY
THW
ATK
Response: After Daredevil thwarts,
deal 1 damage to an enemy.
“Sometimes, I think I accomplish more with my fists
than with my law firm.”
DEFENDER.


MATT MURDOCK
daredevil
JUSTICE
3
2
4
2
 Illus. David Nakayama © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 57
UPGRADE
AGGRESSION
coMBat training
SKILL.
Play under any player’s control.
Max 1 per player.
Your hero gets +1 ATK.
“Tony! She did it again!” —Janet Van Dyne
2
1
6
3
4
10
13
9
7
17
5
2
1
7
15
52 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
IDENTITY (HERO)
IDENTITY
(ALTER-EGO)
SUPPORT
EVENT
RESOURCE
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 1A
ATK
DEF
HERO
THW
HAND SIZE 5 / HIT POINTS 10
AVENGER.
Spider-Sense — Interrupt: When the
villain initiates an attack against you,
draw 1 card.
“Just your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man!”
Spider-Man
3
2
1
 Illus. Gabriel Eltaeb © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 1B
REC
ALTER-EGO
GENIUS.
Scientist — Resource: Generate a
 resource. (Limit once per round.)
“Right now, I'd trade the whole Spider-Man bit for a
rocking chair and a good book.”
HAND SIZE 6 / HIT POINTS 10
peter parker
3
 © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 43A
EVENT
BLACK PANTHER 3/15
TACTIC.
Hero Action: Resolve the “Special”
ability of each Black Panther upgrade
you control in any order. (Resolving
each ability is a step in this sequence.)
1 wakanda forever!
 © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 76 73
SUPPORT
LOCATION. S.H.I.E.L.D.
Increase your ally limit by 1. (This allows
you to control more than 3 allies.)
“Think they made it tall enough?” —She-Hulk
the triSkelion
LEADERSHIP
1
 © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 88
RESOURCE
energy
Max 1 per deck.
BASIC
10
9
11 2
14 6
16
12
2
14 6
5
3
4
7 8
7
8
1
2
7 8
53 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
ENCOUNTER C ARD
ANATOMY KEY
1. Title. The name of this card.
2. Card Type. Indicates how this card behaves or
may be used in the game.
3. Traits. Flavorful attributes that may be
referenced by card abilities.
4. Ability. This card’s specialized means of
interacting with the game.
5. Hit Points. A value that represents this card’s
durability.
6. SCH. How effective this enemy is when it schemes.
7. ATK. How effective this enemy is when it attacks.
8. Boost Icons. Indicates how effective this card is
when it is discarded as an attack boost or scheme
boost.
9. Starting Threat. The amount of threat placed on
this scheme when it enters play.
10. Acceleration. The speed at which this scheme
advances each round.
11. Target Threat. The amount of threat required on
this scheme to advance to the next stage of this
scheme deck.
12. Stage Number. The stage of this villain or scheme
within the scenario.
13. Encounter Set Name. Indicates which
encounter set this card belongs to.
14. Encounter Set Information. Indicates the
number of cards within an encounter set and this
card’s place within that set.
15. Collector Information. Indicates this card’s
product of origin (indicated by its set icon) and
card number within that product.
VILLAIN
MINION
SIDE SCHEME
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 103
SCH
ATK
MINION
When Revealed: Deal 1 damage to
each hero.
“I bet you’re shocked to see me.”
CRIMINAL.
RHINO (12/21)
ShoCkeR
 
3
2
1
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 94
VILLAIN
SCH
ATK
“I’m Rhino. I knock things down. That’s what I do.
That’s who I am.”
BRUTE. CRIMINAL.
RHINO (1/21) / HIT POINTS 14
Rhino I
2
1
Illus. Andrea Di Vito/Laura Villari © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 126
SIDE SCHEME
Klaw is supplying villains with advanced
weaponry from a clandestine arms facility.
When Revealed: Place an
additional 1 threat here.
�
KLAW (20/21)
illegal aRmS FaCToRy
3
 
6
7
13 5
14
1
12
6
7
5
3
2
8
4
1
8
9
54 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
ATTACHMENT TREACHERY
ENVIRONMENT
MAIN SCHEME
OBLIGATION
© 2026 MARVEL. Fantasy Flight Supply is TM of Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games, the
FFG logo, Living Card Game, LCG, and the LCG logo are ® Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight
Games is located at 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905.
Actual components may vary from those shown. Permission granted to print or photocopy for
personal use.
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 98
ENCOUNTER GROUP (XX/XX) ATTACHMENT
Attach to Rhino.
Forced Interrupt: When any
amount of damage would be
dealt to Rhino, place it here
instead. Then, if there is at least
5 damage here, discard Armored
Rhino Suit.
ARMOR.
RHINO (5/21)
aRmoRed Rhino SuiT
Illus. Steve Ellis © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 111
TREACHERY
When Revealed: If Bomb Scare is in
play, assign X damage among heroes
and allies, where X is the amount of
threat on Bomb Scare. If Bomb Scare
is not in play, this card gains surge.
exploSion
BOMB SCARE (4/6)  
Illus. Matt James © MARVEL © 2019 FFG 97B
MAIN SCHEME
Rhino is trying to smash through the
facility wall and steal a shipment of
vibranium. You must stop him!
If this stage is
completed, the players
lose the game.
RHINO (4/21)
The BReak-in! 1B
+1
0
7
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 140
ENVIRONMENT
Each facedown Drone minion engaged
with a player has a base SCH of 1, a
base ATK of 1, and a base hit points
of 1.
Forced Response: After a facedown
Drone minion is defeated, place that
card in its owner's discard pile.
ULTRON (7/25)
ulTRon dRoneS
© MARVEL © 2019 FFG 170
OBLIGATION
Give to the Tony Stark player.
You may flip to alter-ego form. Choose:
• Exhaust Tony Stark → remove
Business Problems from the game.
• Exhaust each upgrade you control.
Discard this obligation.
BuSineSS pRoBlemS
IRON MAN  
1 4
15
2 3
2
14 8
1
4
13 9
10
12
11
1
1
4
13
55 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
CARD BACKS
This page presents the different card backs used in the
game.
The alternate player and encounter card backs are used
for cards that are never shuffled into their respective
decks to aid in identifying those cards.
ENCOUNTER CARD
(ALTERNATE)
PLAYER CARD ENCOUNTER CARD
VILLAIN CARD
PLAYER CARD
(ALTERNATE)
56 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
APPENDIX IV: FAQ
GENERAL QUESTIONS
Q: If my hero has a tough status card and I am dealt
damage, can I use an interrupt ability to reduce or
prevent that damage in order to keep the tough status
card?
A: No. Status cards have priority over all triggered abilities,
like interrupts, so the tough status card must be discarded
to prevent all of the damage before any other abilities could
trigger.
A hero can keep their tough status card if:
1. A constant effect reduces the damage the hero takes
to zero. This is because constant effects have priority
over status cards.
2. The hero makes a basic defense and their DEF reduces
the damage dealt by the attacking enemy’s ATK to
zero. This is because a basic defense reduces the
amount of damage dealt by the attacker, rather than
the amount of damage taken by the defender.
Q: If my ally with a tough status card takes overkill
damage, does the excess damage get dealt to my
identity?
A: No. Only excess damage “taken” by the ally gets dealt to
the identity by the overkill keyword, and a tough status card
prevents the character from “taking” any damage.
CORE SET
Q: In the Core Set, there are 19 Aggression, Justice, and
Protection aspect cards, but only 18 Leadership aspect
cards. Is this correct?
A: Yes. The Leadership aspect received 1 fewer card than
the other aspects because it has more unique cards to
choose from.
SPIDER-MAN (#1A)
Q: When does the villain “initiate” an attack against
Spider-Man?
A: An attack is “initiated” the moment the game determines
an attack will be made against a character. This includes
attacks made from game steps (such as step 2 of the villain
phase) and card abilities (such as an attack initiated by the
“Assault” treachery). Spider Man’s ability resolves before
any of the steps of the process detailed in the “Attack
(Enemy Activation)” section are performed.
WEBBED UP (#9)
Q: How many attacks does Webbed Up prevent?
A: Two attacks in total. Webbed Up prevents the attached
enemy’s very next attack by replacing that attack with the
placement of a stun status card. Then, the stun status card
will prevent that enemy’s following attack.
Q: Does Webbed Up prevent Spider-Sense from
triggering?
A: Yes. Webbed Up’s ability is a replacement effect
(indicated by the word “instead”), meaning the attack never
initiates.
JENNIFER WALTERS (#19B)
Q: Can Jennifer Walters remove threat from a side
scheme as it enters play?
A: No. Side schemes enter play with threat already on them,
meaning threat is not “placed” at this point.
Q: If threat is placed on a scheme during game setup,
does Jennifer Walters’s ability trigger?
A: No. Abilities that do not have the “Setup” timing trigger
cannot resolve during game setup.
LEGAL PRACTICE (#23)
Q: Can Legal Practice remove threat from multiple
schemes simultaneously?
A: No. All of the threat removed by Legal Practice must be
removed from a single scheme.
FOCUSED RAGE (#27)
Q: If She-Hulk has a tough status card, can she use
Focused Rage to draw a card?
A: No. The tough status card prevents She-Hulk from
“tak[ing] 1 damage,” so the ability’s cost cannot be paid.
Because you cannot partially pay a cost, you cannot attempt
to pay the cost of Focused Rage’s ability just to remove
She-Hulk’s tough status card.
SUPERHUMAN STRENGTH (#28)
Q: If She-Hulk attacks an enemy that cannot be stunned
because it is already stunned or is stalwart, does
Superhuman Strength’s Forced Interrupt resolve?
A: No. Because the effect of Superhuman Strength’s Forced
Interrupt cannot affect the attacked enemy, the effect
cannot resolve and Superhuman Strength is not discarded.
REPULSOR BLAST (#31)
Q: Can Repulsor Blast’s first point of damage remove
a tough status card from an enemy, then its additional
damage deal damage to that enemy?
A: No. The additional damage that Repulsor Blast deals is a
simultaneous modification of its first point of damage. For
instance, if a player were to discard 2 energy resources due
to Repulsor Blast, they would deal a total of 5 damage to an
enemy all at once, as the additional 4 damage dealt by the
discard effect happens at the same time as the first point of
damage.
PEPPER POTTS (#33)
Q: Does Pepper Potts generate 2 resources if a card with
2 printed resources (such as Energy, Genius, or Strength)
is on top of the discard pile?
A: Yes. Pepper Potts generates a number of resources that
are equal in quantity and type to the resources on the top
card of the discard pile.
57 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
Q: Will Pepper Potts generate 2 resources if a “The
Power of [Aspect]” resource card (such as The Power of
Aggression) is on top of the discard pile?
A: No. Though the resources that Pepper Potts generates
are equal in quantity and type to the resources of the top
card of the discard pile, Pepper Potts is the card that is
generating these resources. This means that a The Power
of [Aspect] card never generates resources itself, having no
opportunity to generate additional resources for a card of
its specified aspect.
Q: Can Pepper Potts generate the resources of a card
that is currently being spent?
A: No. Resources are generated simultaneously, meaning
the spent card will not be on top of the discard pile at the
time Pepper Potts uses her ability.
ROCKET BOOTS (#39)
Q: If Iron Man has 1 hit point remaining and his Rocket
Boots upgrade is discarded from play, is Iron Man
defeated?
A: Yes. If an ability that modifies hit points expires or
otherwise becomes inactive, the modified hit points revert
to the value they would be without the modifier. In this case,
Iron Man’s hit points would revert to 0, instantly defeating
him.
BLACK PANTHER (#40A)
Q: If an enemy initiates an attack against Black Panther
but another hero or an ally defends against that attack,
will Black Panther’s retaliate ability trigger?
A: No. Black Panther himself must be attacked for retaliate
to trigger.
Q: If Black Panther defends against an attack, will his
retaliate ability trigger?
A: Yes. As long as Black Panther himself is attacked, retaliate
will trigger.
ANCESTRAL KNOWLEDGE (#42)
Q: Can Ancestral Knowledge shuffle different versions
of Wakanda Forever into Black Panther’s deck?
A: No. Cards with the same title are considered to be the
same card for the purpose of card abilities.
VIBRANIUM SUIT (#49)
Q: Does moving damage discard tough status cards from
the target enemy?
A: Yes. If damage is moved to a character, the moved
damage is considered to be dealt to that character.
TIGRA/GREER GRANT NELSON (#51)
Q: Does Tigra’s “Response” ability trigger before or
after she takes consequential damage?
A: Before. The “After Tigra attacks and defeats a minion...”
condition is checked immediately after Tigra defeats a
minion with her attack power, but before consequential
damage is applied to her.
MAKE THE CALL (#71)
Q: When playing Make the Call, do “The Power
of [Aspect]” resource cards (such as The Power of
Leadership) generate 1 resource or 2 resources?
A: Make the Call’s text states “Action: Pay the printed
cost of an ally in any player’s discard pile...”, meaning the
player is paying the cost of the ally itself. If that ally’s aspect
matches that of The Power of [Aspect] card, then The Power
of [Aspect] card will generate 2 resources. However, if that
ally’s aspect does not match, The Power of [Aspect] card will
only generate 1 resource.
WHIRLWIND (#130)
Q: How is Whirlwind’s attack against each hero
resolved?
A: Whirlwind makes a separate attack against each hero
and these attacks are resolved simultaneously. Each player
resolves each step of the attack simultaneously. Each attack
may have a defender declared, and each defender defends
for a single player.
ULTRON II (#135)
Q: If Ultron’s attack is defended by a player other than
the one who was attacked, does Ultron get +1 ATK for
each Drone minion engaged with the defending player or
the player Ultron initiated the attack against?
A: Ultron’s ability has already resolved before defenders are
declared, creating a lasting effect that refers to the original
target of the attack. The bonus to Ultron’s ATK is based on
the number of Drone minions engaged with the player Ultron
initiated the attack against. If the number of Drone minions
engaged with that player changes, the bonus changes as
well.
ASSAULT (#197)
Q: If Assault causes the villain to attack me and there is
only one card left in the encounter deck, is Assault in the
encounter discard pile when the discard pile is shuffled
into the encounter deck after the villain is given a boost
card?
A: No. Assault is not discarded until it finishes resolving,
which happens when the villain’s attack has been resolved.
GREEN GOBLIN SCENARIO PACK
NORMAN OSBORN (#1A)
Q: Will a stun status card prevent Norman Osborn’s
attack activation?
A: Yes. Because status cards take priority over all other
abilities, a stun status card will prevent Norman Osborn’s
activation.
58 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
GREEN GOBLIN (#1B)
Q: While Green Goblin is attacking, if the last madness
counter is removed from the State of Madness
environment through a “Boost” ability, what happens?
A: Green Goblin immediate flips to Norman Osborn form.
Boost icons from the boost card are then added to Norman
Osborn’s ATK value of , which is treated as a value of 0.
Norman Osborn then deals damage from the attack equal
to his modified ATK value (base of 0 ATK, plus the number
of boost icons on the boost card). In this specific situation,
Norman Osborn’s “Forced Interrupt” does not trigger,
as the attack is already past the point of “When Norman
Osborn would attack...” by the time he changes to his
Norman Osborn form.
I SEE YOU (#30)
Q: If I’m in alter-ego form and I reveal “I See You”, does
Green Goblin attack me?
A: Yes. Because the “When Revealed” ability on I See You
does not specify hero form or alter-ego form, Green Goblin
will attack the player no matter their form.
CAPTAIN AMERICA HERO PACK
STEVE ROGERS (#1B)
Q: If Captain America’s Shield is put into play as a Drone
minion during game setup for Ultron, can I retrieve it
with Steve Rogers’s Setup ability?
A: No. The Setup ability specifically searches the player’s
deck and discard pile. If Captain America’s Shield is not in
either game area, the ability fails to find it.
Q: If an ally is played while I’m Captain America, then I
change form to Steve Rogers, will Steve Rogers’s “Living
Legend” ability still apply to the next ally played?
A: No. Living Legend only applies to the very first ally
played each round.
MS. MARVEL HERO PACK
EMBIGGEN (#10)
Q: If an Attack event deals multiple sources of damage
(such as the Aggression event, Melee), how does
Embiggen work?
A: Embiggen increases all instances of damage that an
Attack event deals by 2. For example, if an event were to deal
3 damage, then deal 3 damage again, that event would now
deal 5 damage, then 5 damage again.
SHRINK (#11)
Q: When playing Emergency, can I exhaust Shrink to
remove 2 threat from a scheme?
A: No. Shrink increases each instance of threat removed by
a thwart event. Because Emergency only prevents threat
and does not remove any, Shrink will have no effect.
NOVA/SAM ALEXANDER (#12)
Q: If Nova’s ability defeats an attacking enemy, does
that enemy’s attack still deal damage?
A: No. Although the attack sequence has initiated, damage
from that attack has not yet been calculated. If Nova defeats
the enemy during this step, the rest of the attack sequence
fails to resolve.
MELEE (#30)
Q: Can Melee deal damage to the same enemy twice?
A: No. When Melee deals damage a second time, that
damage must be dealt to an enemy that is different from the
first. Note that different stages of the villain are considered
to be the same enemy.
Q: If I’m engaged with a minion with guard, can I target
that minion and the villain, as long as the minion would
be destroyed by the damage done by Melee?
A: Yes, as long as you defeat the minion with the first
sentence of the ability on Melee, you may deal damage to
the villain with the second sentence of the ability.
THOR HERO PACK
JARNBJORN (#19)
Q: Can I trigger Jarnbjorn after I play an Attack event?
A: Yes. A hero is considered to make an attack both through
their basic attack power and actions with the (attack) label.
Q: If an Attack event damages multiple enemies, can
Jarnbjorn be triggered for each one?
A: Yes. Each enemy that is dealt damage by an Attack event
is considered to have been attacked.
BLACK WIDOW HERO PACK
DANCE OF DEATH (#4)
Q: Dance of Death does not contain the (attack)
label. Are each of its damage-dealing effects actually
considered attacks or is this a mistake?
A: The first sentence of Dance of Death’s ability defines
each damage-dealing effect from Dance of Death as an
individual attack. Resolve each as a normal attack, one at
a time.
Q: If Black Widow is stunned, will each attack from
Dance of Death be prevented, or just the first attack?
A: Because Dance of Death creates three separate attacks,
a stun status card on Black Widow will only prevent the first
attack. The second and third attack can be performed as
normal.
ATTACROBATICS (#6)
Q: Can Attacrobatics cancel 0 boost icons?
A: No. Attacrobatics cannot be used to cancel the boost
icons on a card that has none as there is no valid target for
the ability.
59 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
WIDOW’S BITE (#10)
Q: If I have Widow’s Bite in play and I reveal a minion
with quickstrike, which resolves first?
A: Quickstrike triggers when a minion engages a player and
minions enter play engaged with the player who revealed
them, thus Quickstrike and the “Response” on Widow’s Bite
have the same timing trigger. Keywords have timing priority
over “Response” abilities, so Quickstrike resolves first.
DOCTOR STRANGE HERO PACK
THE NIGHT NURSE (#19)
Q: If the only status card on a hero is a tough status
card, is it discarded if I use The Night Nurse to heal that
hero?
A: Yes. The Night Nurse’s ability discards 1 status card from
that hero, no matter the type.
UNFLAPPABLE (#20)
Q: If while defending against an enemy attack, my
identity takes damage from a “Boost” ability but takes
no damage from the attacking enemy otherwise, can I
still trigger Unflappable to draw a card?
A: Yes. The cost of the ability on Unflappable only requires
that the defending identity take no damage during step 4 of
the enemy attack.
COUNTERSPELL (#30)
Q: Counterspell says “Attach to your hero.” If I draw
Counterspell while in alter-ego form, what happens?
A: Counterspell attempts to attach to your hero but cannot.
Because it is unable to meet its condition, simply discard it.
(Do not reveal a new encounter card in its place.)
IMAGES OF IKONN (#33)
Q: Can I resolve Images of Ikonn if the villain is already
confused and there is no threat on a scheme?
A: Yes. As long as any part of the ability on Images of Ikonn
has a valid target, then it will do as many effects as it is able.
While its first effect may not have a valid target if the villain
is already confused and there is no threat on a scheme, its
second effect always has a valid target (the card itself).
HULK HERO PACK
CRUSHING BLOW (#2)
Q: If Crushing Blow’s resource cost is reduced to 0, can
it be played without spend  resources?
A: Yes. The “You can only spend  resources to pay for this
card” ability on Crushing Blow only applies when actual
resources are being spent to pay for its resource cost. If its
resource cost is reduced to 0, no resources are required to
pay for Crushing Blow, so no  resources must be spent.
UNSTOPPABLE FORCE (#6)
Q: If Unstoppable Force’s resource cost is reduced to 0,
will I draw 1 card from its second ability?
A: No. Because no resources were spent to pay for
Unstoppable Force’s resource cost, its “If you paid for this
ability using only  resources...” condition was not fulfilled,
so that effect will not resolve.
CLASH OF TITANS (#28)
Q: If my highest-ATK character is an ally, and the attack
from Clash of Titans is undefended, which takes the
damage: my identity or the ally that was attacked?
A: The ally will take all damage from the undefended attack.
RISE OF RED SKULL EXPANSION
HAWKEYE’S QUIVER (#3)
Q: After using Hawkeye’s Quiver to search the top
5 cards of my deck, what should I do with those cards?
A: Shuffle those cards back into Hawkeye’s deck. After
a search ability is completed—no matter if that ability
searches the whole deck or only a portion of the deck—the
entire deck is shuffled.
MARKED FOR DEATH (#28)
Q: When Marked for Death is revealed, if a copy of
Mockingbird is already under a player’s control who is
not Clint Barton, what happens?
A: The Clint Barton player can tuck their copy of
Mockingbird under this scheme even if there is another
copy of Mockingbird in play because tucked cards are not
considered to be in play.
JESSICA DREW (#31B)
Q: Does Jessica Drew’s Double Agent ability require her
deck to be built with two aspects?
A: Yes. An equal number of cards from two different aspects
must be included in her deck.
FINESSE (#33)
Q: Can Finesse generate a resource to pay for an aspect
card’s ability (such as Jarnbjorn)?
A: Yes. As long as the resource generated by Finesse is
spent on an aspect card (its resource cost or a cost within
that aspect card’s ability), Finesse can be used.
THE ONCE AND FUTURE K ANG
SCENARIO PACK
Q: While the players are split into separate game areas,
whose game area are environment cards considered to
be in?
A: Environment cards are considered to be in all players’
game areas.
DEPOWERED (#20)
Q: If Depowered is in Doctor Strange’s play area, can the
Doctor Strange player still use the Invocation deck?
A: Yes. The abilities on cards in the Invocation deck are merely
resolved, not played.
60 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
WASP HERO PACK
WASP (#1C)
Q: While Wasp is in Giant hero form, how does her first
ability interact the patrol keyword and the crisis icon?
A: Wasp’s first ability allows her basic thwart to
simultaneously remove threat from each scheme that Wasp
chooses. Wasp cannot choose the main scheme as a target
while she is engaged with a minion with the patrol keyword
or there is a card with a crisis icon in play. Due to the
simultaneous nature of this ability, this applies even if the
card with the patrol keyword or crisis icon is removed from
play during her basic thwart’s resolution.
Q: While Wasp is in Giant hero form, how does her second
ability interact with the guard keyword?
A: Wasp’s second ability allows her basic attack to
simultaneously damage each enemy that Wasp chooses.
Wasp cannot choose the villain as a target while she is
engaged with a minion with the guard keyword. Due to the
simultaneous nature of this ability, this applies even if the
card with the guard keyword is removed from play during
her basic attack’s resolution.
Q: While Wasp is in Giant hero form, how does her second
ability interact with multiple enemies who have the
retaliate keyword?
A: Wasp is considered to attack each target affected by her
divided basic attack. If Wasp’s basic attack is divided among
multiple enemies with the retaliate keyword, each instance
of retaliate will damage Wasp (in the order of her choice).
QUICKSILVER HERO PACK
QUICKSILVER (#1A)
Q: If Quicksilver attempts to make a basic attack or basic
thwart while stunned or confused, can his Super Speed
ability trigger?
A: No. Stunned and confused status cards replace the usage
of the basic power with their removal. If Quicksilver makes a
basic attack while stunned or a basic thwart while confused,
he is not considered to have used a basic power and the
condition of his Super Speed ability is not met.
SCARLET WITCH HERO PACK
HEX BOLT (#4)
Q: For the second sentence of Hex Bolt, do the bulleted
abilities resolve each time a card is discarded from the
encounter deck, or do the bulleted abilities resolve after
all 3 cards have been discarded?
A: As Hex Bolt does not contain an alteration effect, resolve
the first sentence of Hex Bolt entirely, without interruption.
Then, determine and resolve the appropriate bulleted
abilities based off of what was discarded.
SLIPPING SANITY (#23)
Q: Is it intentional that Scarlet Witch has two obligation
cards?
A: Yes. Scarlet Witch’s powers are chaotic, often working
in her favor, though also sometimes working against her.
While she has many cards within her personal set that
represent the positive facets of her powers, having multiple
obligations represents the negative facets.
GAL A X Y’S MOST WANTED
EXPANSION
MODULAR ENCOUNTER SETS
Q: In the Galaxy’s Most Wanted Expansion, which sets
are considered modular encounter sets?
A: If an encounter set is not scenario-specific (containing
the name of that scenario in its encounter set name area)
or campaign-specific (containing the word “Campaign”
in its encounter set name area), then it is modular. The
eight modular encounter sets in the Galaxy’s Most Wanted
Expansion are: Badoon Headhunter, Band of Badoon,
Galactic Artifacts, Kree Militants, Menagerie Medley,
Power Stone, Space Pirates, and Ship Command.
CAMPAIGN MODE
Q: Do I have to play in expert mode for each scenario in
an expert campaign?
A: No. Increasing a campaign’s difficulty merely adds
additional cards or setup instructions to each scenario in
that campaign. It does not lock players into any other mode
of play. For each scenario within a campaign, players are
encouraged to choose the other modes of play that are
right for them.
Q: If I play one scenario in expert mode, do I have to
play the next scenario using the same mode?
A: No. The players may, for instance, play one scenario
of the campaign using a combination of standard, heroic,
and skirmish modes, then play the next scenario of the
campaign using simply expert mode. Players can mix and
match modes as they see fit between each scenario in
a campaign.
ROCKET RACCOON (#29A)
Q: If Rocket Raccoon uses his “Tinkering” ability but the
Tech upgrade is not placed into a discard pile (such as due
to Collector’s ability), will Rocket Raccoon draw 2 cards?
A: Yes. Discarding is the act of attempting to place a
card into a discard pile. Even if the Tech upgrade ends up
in a different game area, the cost of Rocket Raccoon’s
“Tinkering” ability was still paid.
SALVAGE (#33)
Q: If the Hulk ally (Core Set #50) discards Salvage, what
happens?
A: Hulk’s ability checks all printed resources on Salvage
simultaneously, then resolves the appropriate effect
based on the result. Because this check and resolution is
simultaneous, the player who controls Hulk chooses the
order in which the effects resolve.
61 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
BATTERY PACK (#34)
Q: Can Battery Pack move a charge counter to a Tech card
that does not use “charge counters”?
A: Yes. The card that an all-purpose counter is on defines
the type of that counter, so Battery Pack can move a counter
to any Tech card and that counter will take on the type
defined by that card (if any).
POWER STONE (#149)
Q: If an identity who controls the Power Stone is
defeated, what happens to the Power Stone?
A: If a player is eliminated from the game while a permanent
attachment is in their play area, they resolve the “attach to”
text of that attachment. In this case, the Power Stone would
be attached to the villain.
Q: If a character with the Power Stone is dealt 3 or more
damage but does not take 3 or more damage due to
damage prevention, does the attacker get the Power
Stone attached to them?
A: Yes. Damage prevention does not reduce the amount
of damage dealt. Note that a hero making a basic defense
reduces the amount of damage dealt by that hero’s DEF,
so defending an attack can prevent the Power Stone from
being taken.
STAR-LORD HERO PACK
STAR-LORD (#1A)
Q: If I play an ally that does not have the printed Guardian
trait while in hero form, can I trigger the response on
Knowhere (#22)?
A: Yes. Star-Lord’s constant ability grants each ally his player
controls the Guardian trait. Constant abilities have priority
over triggered abilities like Knowhere’s “Response” ability,
so the newly-played ally will have the Guardian trait before
Knowhere triggers.
MISTER KNIFE (#26)
Q: When Mister Knife is revealed by Shadow of the Past,
does Shadow of the Past gain surge if it was the first
treachery revealed by the Star-Lord player that phase?
A: No. Mister Knife was not in play when Shadow of the Past
was revealed, so his ability does not cause Shadow of the
Past to gain surge.
DIVE BOMB (#28)
Q: Can I play Dive Bomb if I am engaged with a minion
with the guard keyword? If so, how would it resolve?
A: Yes. Abilities are resolved one sentence at a time, so
“[d]eal 7 damage to an enemy” would resolve first. If that
damage defeated the guard minion, the second effect,
“[d]eal 1 damage to each other enemy” would deal
1 damage to the villain. If the first sentence did not
defeat the guard minion, the second sentence would deal
1 damage to each enemy other than the villain and the
enemy dealt damage by the first sentence.
VENOM HERO PACK
GRASPING TENDRILS (#3)
Q: If I cancel an attack with Grasping Tendrils, is my hero
considered to have defended that attack?
A: Yes, because Grasping Tendrils is labeled as a defense,
your hero is considered to have defended the attack.
MAD TITAN’S SHADOW EXPANSION
SCENARIO #2 - TOWER DEFENSE
Q: When a minion schemes during this scenario, which
main scheme is its threat placed on?
A: Threat from a minion scheming is placed on the main
scheme with the “Focused Defense” attachment attached
to it.
IN-BETWEENER (#42), LIVING TRIBUNAL
(#48), ETERNITY (#54), THE GARDENER (#60)
Q: Where does a Cosmic Entity event go after it is resolved
as a boost card?
A: That event is placed in the encounter deck discard pile.
NEBULA HERO PACK
OLD RIVALS (#31)
Q: If Old Rivals causes a Gamora ally or hero to attack,
can her controller trigger abilities related to her
attacking during this attack?
A: Yes. Gamora is considered to have attacked, so abilities
triggered by her attacking can be resolved.
Q: If Old Rivals causes a Gamora ally to attack, does she
take consequential damage?
A: Yes, allies always take consequential damage after they
attack.
WAR MACHINE HERO PACK
GAUNTLET GUN (#5)
Q: Can Gauntlet Gun’s resource ability be triggered
when paying a cost other than for a War Machine event
in order to place 1 ammo counter on War Machine?
A: No, Gaunlet Gun’s resource ability can only be triggered
when paying for a War Machine event.
SINISTER MOTIVES EXPANSION
SCENARIO #4 - THE SINISTER SIX
Q: If there is more than one villain in play, which villain
takes the excess damage from attacks with overkill?
A: The villain with the active counter takes the overkill
damage.
Q: What happens if a villain needs to activate and there
are one or more villains in play but none of them have
the active counter?
A: Place the active counter on the villain with the lowest
activation order value and continue that activation.
62 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
SCENARIO #5 - VENOM GOBLIN
Q: What happens when one of the main schemes is
completed?
A: When any of the main schemes has threat on it equal to
or greater than its target threat value, flip that main scheme
to its environment side and reveal that environment.
Q: When a player card effect places an acceleration
token on “the main scheme,” which scheme is that token
placed on?
A: That token is placed on the main scheme with the glider
counter.
Q: When a player card effect counts the number of
acceleration tokens on “the main scheme,” on which
main scheme are the tokens counted?
A: The player using the effect chooses one main scheme on
which to count the acceleration tokens.
ACROSS THE SPIDER-VERSE (#18)
Q: Can this ability be repeated more than once?
A: Yes, repeating the ability on this card includes the repeat
effect itself. As long as a player who can spend 3 resources
and exhaust a Web-Warrior card can be chosen, the ability can
be repeated.
IRONHEART HERO PACK
“GO FOR CHAMPIONS!” (#25)
Q: If I have played “Go for Champions!” this round, can I
trigger an ability that requires taking damage as a cost?
A: No, if you cannot take damage, you cannot pay a cost
that requires you to take damage.
SPIDER-HAM HERO PACK
WARRIOR OF THE GREAT WEB (#29)
Q: Can the SP//dr hero or ally have Warrior of the Great
Web attached?
A: No. A character’s title must contain the word “Spider”
spelled exactly that way in order for Warrior of the Great
Web to be attached.
SP//DR HERO PACK
SPIDER-MAN NOIR (#15)
Q: If a treachery’s “When Revealed” ability is canceled,
can Spider-Man Noir attach that treachery to himself?
A: In order for Spider-Man Noir’s response to trigger, some
part of the treachery card must be resolved. If the treachery
card has a keyword on it that is resolved when the card is
revealed, like surge or incite X, Spider-Man Noir can trigger
his response to attach that card to himself. If no part of the
treachery card resolves, he cannot attach it.
MUTANT GENESIS EXPANSION
POWERFUL PUNCH (#14)
Q: If Shadowcat plays Powerful Punch on the villain,
when does she flip her mass form?
A: When the villain initiates an attack, Shadowcat plays
Powerful Punch. She deals 4 damage to the villain. As soon
as she finishes resolving the attack-labeled effect, she is
considered to have attacked and can flip her mass form
as soon as the damage is dealt (she must do so if she is in
Phased mass form).
The villain then continues its attack, and Shadowcat is now
considered defending that attack. If she is in her Phased
mass form, she will not take any damage from that attack
because of the constant ability on her Phased upgrade card.
After the villain deals damage from its attack (or attempts
to do so), Shadowcat finishes defending and can flip her
mass form again (which she must do if she is in Phased mass
form).
MUTANT PROTECTORS (#17)
Q: How does the defense label on Mutant Protectors
work since the card ability makes an ally the defender?
A: When a player plays Mutant Protectors, that player
becomes the target of the enemy attack and the X-Men ally
put into play becomes the defender.
If the defending ally leaves play before damage is dealt for
the attack, the player’s hero becomes the defender and
can trigger “after you defend” responses after the attack
resolves. (This is not a basic defense, and the villain’s attack
is not reduced by the hero’s DEF.)
WHITE QUEEN (#56)
Q: How does White Queen’s constant ability work?
A: The phrase “you are confused” instructs you to
place a confused status card on your identity. Because
White Queen uses this phrase as a constant ability, she
continuously places confused status cards on the engaged
player’s identity until that identity cannot have any more
confused status cards (normally one, but can be more,
such as when the identity has the steady keyword). If that
identity attempts to thwart, they can do so and remove their
confused status card(s), but will immediately be given more
confused status cards. When White Queen leaves play,
any confused status cards remain on the identity until that
identity attempts to thwart in order to remove them.
OPERATION ZERO TOLERANCE (#104)
Q: If an ally is not discarded after being defeated by
an enemy attack (for instance, it is returned to hand
or shuffled into a player’s deck), does it go under
Operation Zero Tolerance?
A: Yes. Operation Zero Tolerance does not specify where to
find the defeated ally when it resolves, so it is placed under
Operation Zero Tolerance, regardless of where it ended up.
63 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
FABIAN CORTEZ (#159)
Q: If Fabian Cortez’s “When Defeated” ability puts an
Acolyte minion with the teamwork keyword into play while
Fabian Cortez is the only other Acolyte minion in play, will
the teamwork keyword on the other minion trigger?
A: No. Since putting the other minion into play is the last
effect of Fabian Cortez’s “When Defeated” ability, he is
discarded immediately upon the other minion entering
play. This means Fabian Cortez is no longer in play when
the other minion‘s teamwork keyword tries to find an Acolyte
minion in play.
CYCLOPS HERO PACK
RICOCHET BEAM (#9)
Q: If Cyclops chooses the same enemy with Exploit
Weakness attached for both of Ricochet Beam’s
instances of damage, how much damage is dealt to that
enemy?
A: Exploit Weakness increases each instance of damage
Ricochet Beam deals to the enemy to which Exploit
Weakness is attached by 1, so Ricochet Beam deals that
enemy a total of 8 damage (4 damage + 4 damage).
MOJOMANIA SCENARIO PACK
DIAL M FOR MOJO (#35)
Q: If Dial M for Mojo is in play when Spiral flips, does her
incite 1 keyword trigger?
A: Yes. Villains are encounter cards, so Dial M for Mojo gives
incite 1 to Spiral. When Spiral flips, her new face is revealed,
meaning her incite 1 resolves.
WILD WILD MOJO (#66)
Q: How is overkill damage affected by the “Forced
Interrupt” on Wild Wild Mojo?
A: Wild Wild Mojo first increases the initial damage dealt to
a minion or ally by 1, and then when the excess damage is
applied to the villain or identity, Wild Wild Mojo increases
it by another 1, meaning the total overkill damage dealt is
increased by 2.
NEXT EVOLUTION EXPANSION
MALICE (#199)
Q: Is Malice still a minion while she is attached to an ally?
A: Yes. While Malice is attached to an ally:
• She retains the minion card type.
• She retains any damage on her.
• She can be attacked and targeted by card abilities
(including attachments) like any minion, but cannot be
defeated again, even if she gains hit points or heals
damage.
• She is not considered engaged with a player and so
cannot activate.
• She is discarded when the card to which she is
attached leaves play.
X-23 HERO PACK
HONEY BADGER (#3)
Q: Can Honey Badger’s “Response” be triggered if the
damage defeats her?
A: No. By the time Honey Badger’s “Response“ would
trigger, she has already left play, so it cannot be triggered.
DEADPOOL HERO PACK
CRISIS OF INFINITE DEADPOOLS (#37)
Q: Is Crisis of Infinite Deadpools included in the
encounter deck if an ability allows a player to include
one or more ‘Pool aspect cards from outside of their
chosen aspect in their deck?
A: No. Crisis of Infinite Deadpools is only included if at least
one player in the game chooses the ‘Pool aspect as (one of)
their chosen aspect(s).
AGE OF APOCALYPSE EXPANSION
MAGIK (#30A)
Q: When Magik plays the top card of her deck, at what
point is the next card in her deck turned faceup?
A: When playing the top card of her deck (which is the same
process as playing a card from hand), Magik moves the card
she is playing to the table in front of her during step 3 of
the process outlined in the Initiating Abilities section of this
rules reference. As soon as she does this, she turns the new
top card of her deck faceup.
Q: Can Magik play the top card of her deck using an
ability that says “play a card from your hand,” such as
Team-Building Exercise (Ant-Man #24)?
A: Yes. Any time Magik has an opportunity to play a card
from her hand, she may choose to play the top card of her
deck instead (once per phase).
Q: Can Magik resolve an ability that triggers “after you
play [card] from your hand,” such as Pixie (Storm #17), if
she plays that card from the top of her deck?
A: Yes. When Magik plays a card from the top of her deck,
that card is considered to have been played from her hand.
Q: Can Magik put the top card of her deck into play as
if it was in her hand, such as with Mutant Protectors
(Mutant Genesis #17)?
A: No. Putting a card into play is not the same as playing a
card, and Magik’s ability only allows her to play the top card
of her deck, not put it into play.
AGENTS OF S.H.I.E.L.D. EXPANSION
MARIA HILL (#1B)
Q: Can I include just one or two S.H.I.E.L.D. supports from
aspects other than my chosen aspect in my Maria Hill
deck?
A: No, Maria Hill’s ability is all or nothing. You must include
the maximum number of copies of each of exactly three
S.H.I.E.L.D. supports from aspects other than your chosen
aspect, or else you cannot have any S.H.I.E.L.D. supports from
other aspects in your deck.
64 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
STEALTH (#35)
Q: When Nick Fury’s Stealth suit form changes the
villain’s activation to a scheme, what happens if that
villain is confused?
A: The interrupt ability of Stealth causes the villain activation
to reinitiate, this time as a scheme activation, so the the
confused status will cancel that activation (and Nick Fury
does not get to place any threat on his suit form upgrade).
BLACK PANTHER HERO PACK
THE ELEPHANT’S TRUNK (#7)
Q: Can I satisfy the cost of The Elephant’s Trunk’s action
ability if I just exhaust The Elephant’s Trunk itself?
A: Yes. The Elephant’s Trunk is itself a Wakanda support, so it
satisfies the minimum of one Wakanda ally or support needed
to pay its ability’s cost.
TARGET SPOTTER (#38)
Q: If I use Target Spotter on a minion revealed by
another player, does that minion ever engage that other
player?
A: No, Target Spotter interrupts the engagement of that
minion and causes it to engage the player using Target
Spotter instead.
FALCON HERO PACK
REDWING (#2)
Q: Can Redwing’s ability be triggered if the top card of
the encounter deck is visible and that card has no icons
in its boost area?
A: No, because the player knows that the ability will not be
able to affect its target, the ability cannot be triggered.
HERCULES HERO PACK
LABOR CARDS
Q: What happens if a labor card fails to find a target
when it is revealed?
A: That Labor card is discarded. Any time a Labor card leaves
play other than being placed in the victory display, place it
on the bottom of the Labor deck.
APPENDIX V:
ERRATA
CORE SET
SUPERHUMAN LAW DIVISION (#26)
Should read: “Alter-Ego Action: Exhaust Superhuman Law
Division and spend a  resource → remove 2 threat from a
scheme.” (Removed “(thwart)” label.)
IRON MAN (#29A)
Should read: “You get +1 hand size for each Tech upgrade
you control (to a maximum of +6 hand size).” (Changed “(to
a maximum hand size of 7)” to “(to a maximum of +6 hand
size)”.)
THE DOOMSDAY CHAIR (#183)
Should read: “When Revealed: If M.O.D.O.K. is not in play,
search the encounter deck and discard pile for M.O.D.O.K.
and put him into play engaged with you, then shuffle the
encounter deck.” (Added periods to “M.O.D.O.K.”)
M.O.D.O.K. (#184)
Added periods to card title.
THE WRECKING CREW SCENARIO
PACK
“I’VE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS!” (#41)
Should read: “When Revealed: The active villain heals 3 hit
points. Give that villain a tough status card.” (Changed
“gains” to “heals”.)
CAPTAIN AMERICA HERO PACK
HONORARY AVENGER (#25)
Should read: “Play only if your identity has the Avenger
trait. Attach to a friendly character. Max 1 per character.
Attached character gets +1 hit point and gains the Avenger
trait.” (Added “Max 1 per character.”)
FOLLOWED (#32)
Should read: “Interrupt: When attached scheme is
defeated, deal 4 damage to an enemy.” (Changed
“Response” to “Interrupt”.)
THOR HERO PACK
LIGHTNING STRIKE (#6)
Should read: “Hero Action: Spend X  resources → deal
X damage to the villain and each minion engaged with you.
This damage ignores tough status cards if you have the
Aerial trait.” (Changed “attack” to “damage”.)
65 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
LOKI (#28)
Should read: “Forced Interrupt: When Loki would be
defeated, discard the top card of the encounter deck. If
that card is a treachery, heal all damage from Loki instead.”
(Changed “Interrupt” to “Forced Interrupt”.)
BLACK WIDOW HERO PACK
BLACK WIDOW (#1A)
Should read: “Widowmaker — Response: After you resolve
the ability of a Preparation card you control, deal 1 damage to
an enemy.” (Changed “trigger” to “resolve”.)
SYNTH-SUIT (#9)
Should read: “Hero Response: After you resolve the ability
of a preparation card you control, exhaust Synth-Suit → ready
Black Widow.” (Changed “trigger” to “resolve”.)
DOCTOR STRANGE HERO PACK
IRON FIST (#14)
Should read: “Interrupt: When Iron Fist attacks an enemy,
remove 1 mystic counter from him → stun that enemy and
deal 1 damage to it.” (Changed “Response” to “Interrupt”.)
WARNING (#21)
Should read: “Interrupt: When a hero would take any
amount of damage, reduce that amount by 1.” (Removed
“(defense)” and the Defense trait.)
HULK HERO PACK
INNER DEMONS (#25)
Should read: “Give to the Bruce Banner player. Change
form (flip your identity). • If you are Bruce Banner, discard
2 cards from your hand. Discard this obligation. • If you are
Hulk, exhaust your hero. Discard this obligation.” (Removed
“Then:”.)
RISE OF RED SKULL EXPANSION
AVENGERS TOWER (#21)
Should have the Avenger trait.
MARKED FOR DEATH (#28)
Should read: “When Revealed: The Clint Barton player
searches their hand, deck, discard pile, and play area for
Mockingbird and tucks her faceup beneath this card. When
this scheme is defeated, return the tucked Mockingbird
to her owner’s hand.” (Changed “places” to “tucks” and
“stage” to “scheme”. Added “the tucked”.)
HAIL HYDRA! (#57, #147)
Should read: “When Revealed: Each Hydra minion engaged
with a hero attacks that hero. Each player who was not
attacked this way searches the encounter deck and discard
pile for a Hydra minion and puts it into play engaged with
them. Shuffle the encounter deck if it was searched.”
(Changed the shuffle ability to only occur if the encounter
deck is searched.)
ATTACK ON MOUNT ATHENA (#61A)
Should read: “Contents: Crossbones (I) and Crossbones
(II). Crossbones, Experimental Weapons, and Standard
Encounter sets. Three modular sets (Hydra Assault, Weapon
Master, and Legions of Hydra).” (Changed “Hydra Patrol” to
“Hydra Assault”.)
THE RISE OF RED SKULL (#128A)
Should read: “Setup: Put the Red House into play. Shuffle
every other encounter side scheme into the side-scheme
deck and set it next to the encounter deck (see insert). Set
The Sleeper aside, out of play.” (Added “encounter” before
“side scheme”.)
TWISTED REALITY (#135)
Should read: “Forced Interrupt: When attached side
scheme is defeated, deal the first player an encounter card.”
(Changed “Forced Response” to “Forced Interrupt”.)
BITTER RIVAL (#136)
Should read: “When Revealed: For each side scheme in
play, choose and exhaust a character you control.” (Revised
wording to function as intended with updated “for each”
rules.)
WASP HERO PACK
BEETLE (#28)
Should read: “Forced Interrupt: When Beetle is defeated,
the defeating player chooses to either spend a  resource
or shuffle Beetle into the encounter deck.” (Specified which
player should resolve the ability.)
GAL A X Y’S MOST WANTED
EXPANSION
RULEBOOK PG. 10, CAMPAIGN INSTRUCTIONS,
SETUP, BULLET 5
Should read: “Expert Campaign Only: When setup ends,
in player order, each player must choose 1 card from their
hand and put it faceup into The Collection.” (Added “When
setup ends”.)
RULEBOOK PG. 18, CAMPAIGN INSTRUCTIONS,
SETUP, BULLET 1
Should read: “(Optional) Reveal the Kree Supremacy (#182A)
side scheme (use the reverse side for expert mode).”
(Added “(Optional)” before the instruction.)
OBEDIENCE POTION (#123)
Should read: “Hero Action: Take 1 damage and spend
  resources → discard this card. Any player can do this.”
(Changed reminder text to rules text.)
THE POISON (#125)
Should read: “Hero Action: Spend 3 resources of different
types → discard this card. Any player can do this.”
(Changed reminder text to rules text.)
66 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
STAR-LORD HERO PACK
COSMO (#20)
Should read: “Interrupt: When Cosmo attacks or thwarts,
name a card type, then discard the top card of a player
deck or the encounter deck. If that card is of the named
type, Cosmo does not take consequential damage for this
use.” (Changed “a deck” to “a player deck or the encounter
deck”. Removed reminder text.)
MAD TITAN’S SHADOW EXPANSION
RULEBOOK PG. 10, TWO MAIN SCHEMES,
PARAGRAPH 1
Should end with this sentence: “When a minion schemes,
that threat is placed on the main scheme with the
attachment ‘Focused Defense’ attached to it.”
SANCTUARY (#116)
Should read: “Thanos cannot take damage from player
cards.” (Added “from player cards”.)
INFINITY GAUNTLET (#129)
Should read: “Permanent. Setup.
Attach to the villain.
Forced Response: After attached villain activates against
you, resolve the Special ability of each Infinity Stone in play.
Otherwise, put the top card of the Infinity Stone deck into
play.” (Added “Attach to the villain” and “against you”.)
NEBULA HERO PACK
EROS (#11)
Should read: “Response: After you play Eros from your
hand, for each  resource you used to pay for him, choose
a minion and confuse it.” (Revised wording to function as
intended with updated “for each” rules.)
COSMO (#20)
Should read: “Interrupt: When Cosmo attacks or thwarts,
name a card type, then discard the top card of a player
deck or the encounter deck. If that card is of the named
type, Cosmo does not take consequential damage for this
use.” (Changed “a deck” to “a player deck or the encounter
deck”. Removed reminder text.)
OLD RIVALS (#31)
Should read: “When Revealed: Gamora attacks you. If the
Gamora hero or ally is in play, she attacks you (resolve her
ATK against you without exhausting her). If no attack was
made this way, this card gains surge.” (Changed reminder
text to rules text to function with the updated rules on
referential abilities.)
WAR MACHINE HERO PACK
JAMES RHODES (#1B)
Should read: “Action: Choose a War Machine card in your
discard pile and shuffle it into your deck. (Limit once per
phase.)” (Added “(Limit once per phase.)”)
VALKYRIE HERO PACK
ARAGORN (#7)
Should read: “You get +4 hit points and gain the Aerial trait.”
(Changed “Valkyrie” to “You”.)
SHIELDMAIDEN (#11)
Should have the Defense trait and read: “Hero Interrupt
(defense): When the enemy with Death-Glow attached
attacks, declare Valkyrie the defender without exhausting
her. She gets +2 DEF for this attack.” (Added “(defense)”.)
BEGUILED (#31)
Should have the Condition trait and read: “When Revealed:
Attach to the ally with the highest cost without Beguiled
attached. Attached ally engages its controller. Otherwise,
this card gains surge.”
VISION HERO PACK
MACHINE MAN (#22)
Should read: “Interrupt: When Machine Man attacks or
thwarts, spend up to 3 resources of any type → Machine
Man gets +1 THW and +1 ATK for this use for each resource
spent this way.” (Added “for this use”.)
SINISTER MOTIVES EXPANSION
RULEBOOK PG. 17, THE GLIDER COUNTER,
PARAGRAPH 4
Should end with this sentence: “When a main scheme is
completed, flip it to its environment side.”
RULEBOOK PG. 22, REPUTATION TRACK, LEFT
COLUMN, PARAGRAPH 2
Should read: “During the Resolve Mulligans step of
game setup, each player may take 1 additional mulligan.”
(Changed “step 13” to “the Resolve Mulligans step” to align
with updated setup process.)
WORRIED FATHER (#25)
Should read: “Search your deck, hand, discard pile, and
play area for George Stacy and attach him facedown to this
card.” (Attaches George Stacy to itself instead of setting
him aside and attaching to him.)
VENOM I AND II (#73-74)
Should read: “Vengeance — Forced Response: After you
or an ally you control attacks and damages Venom, place
1 facedown boost card on your identity.” (Changed “you
attack and damage Venom with a card you control” to “you
or an ally you control attacks and damages Venom”.)
VENOM III (#75)
Should read: “Retribution — Forced Response: After you
or an ally you control attacks and damages Venom, place
1 facedown boost card on your identity (2 facedown boost
cards instead if this is the first attack this turn).” (Changed
“you attack and damage Venom with a card you control” to
“you or an ally you control attacks and damages Venom”.)
67 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
MANIPULATED MIND (#171)
Should read: “When Revealed: Attach to the ally you
control with the lowest cost. Attached ally engages its
controller. Otherwise, this card gains surge.” (Added
“Attached ally engages its controller.”)
NOVA HERO PACK
MS. MARVEL (#2)
Should read: “Hero Response: After you play an event,
exhaust Ms. Marvel and deal 1 damage to her → return that
event to your hand from your discard pile.” (Added “from
your discard pile”.)
IRONHEART HERO PACK
“GO FOR CHAMPIONS!” (#25)
Should read: “Hero Action: Remove ‘Go for Champions!’
from the game → each Champion character in play cannot
take damage until the end of the round.” (Added “Remove
‘Go for Champions!’ from the game →”.)
SP//DR HERO PACK
SP//DR SUIT (#1B)
Should read: “Return to Base — Forced Interrupt: When
you flip to this side, flip SP//dr to Peni Parker. Detach Peni
Parker from here, moving all counters on this card and cards
attached to this card to her.” (Counters and attachments
now move to Peni Parker, instead of the reverse.)
M.O.R.B.I.U.S. (#27)
Should read: “Forced Response: After the engaged player
generates any number of resources, deal an equal amount
of damage to that player’s hero.” (Changed “engaged hero”
to “engaged player” and “that hero” to “that player’s hero”.)
MUTANT GENESIS EXPANSION
STEEL FIST (#8)
Should read: “Hero Action (attack): Deal 5 damage to an
enemy. You may discard a tough status card from your hero
to stun and confuse that enemy.” (Replaced cost arrow with
“to”.)
ARMOR UP (#10)
Should read: “Alter-Ego Interrupt: When the villain would
activate, change to hero form.” (Added “would”.)
MUTANTS AT THE MALL (#88A)
Should read: “When Defeated: The first player searches
the encounter deck and discard pile for a Sentinel minion and
reveals it. Flip this card and put Jubilee into play, discarding
any other ally version of Jubilee from play.” (Added “ally”.)
ASTEROID M (#141B)
Should read: “Forced Response: After you place a magnet
counter on this scheme, if there are at least 3 magnet
counters here, remove 3 of them and discard cards from
the encounter deck until a Magnetic card is discarded. Reveal
that card.” (Magnet counters are now removed before the
Magnetic card is revealed.)
FACTORY ONLINE (#142B)
Should read: “Forced Response: After you place a magnet
counter on this scheme, if there are at least 3 magnet
counters here, remove 3 of them and discard cards from
the encounter deck until a Magnetic card is discarded. Reveal
that card.” (Magnet counters are now removed before the
Magnetic card is revealed.)
THE RULE OF MAGNUS (#143B)
Should read: “Forced Response: After you place a magnet
counter on this scheme, if there are at least 3 magnet
counters here, remove 3 of them and discard cards from
the encounter deck until a Magnetic card is discarded. Reveal
that card.” (Magnet counters are now removed before the
Magnetic card is revealed.)
WOLVERINE HERO PACK
LOGAN (#1A)
Should read: “Setup: Put Wolverine’s Claws into play.”
BERSERKER BARRAGE (#8)
Should read: “Hero Action (attack): Deal 4 damage to an
enemy. If this attack defeats an enemy, you may take 2
damage to repeat this ability.” (Replaced cost arrow with
“to”.)
STORM HERO PACK
CLAUSTROPHOBIA (#30)
Should read: “Flip to alter-ego form. You cannot change to
hero form.” (Changed “change forms” to “change to hero
form”.)
POSSESSED (#38)
Should read: “When Revealed: Attach to the ally with the
lowest THW without Possessed attached. Attached ally
engages its controller. If you cannot, this card gains surge.”
(Added “Attached ally engages its controller.”)
GAMBIT HERO PACK
PSIONIC SHIELD (#34)
Should read: “Forced Interrupt: When attached minion
would leave play, instead heal all damage from that minion.
Then, discard this attachment.” (Removed “and put it back
into play”.)
68 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
ROGUE HERO PACK
ANNA MARIE (#1A)
Should read: “Setup: Find your Touched upgrade and set it
aside.
Withdrawn — Forced Response: After you change to this
form, find Touched and set it aside.” (Now specifies to
“find” Touched and set it aside.)
ROGUE (#1B)
Should read: “Skin Contact — Action: Find Touched and
attach it to another character. You gain each of the attached
character’s Traits until the end of the round. (Limit once per
round.)” (Changed “Attach Touched...” to “Find Touched
and attach it...”.)
ENERGY TRANSFER (#7)
Should read: “Hero Action: Find Touched and attach it to
a character other than Rogue and deal 2 damage to that
character → heal 2 damage from Rogue and ready her. You
gain each of the attached character’s Traits until the end of
the round.” (Changed “Attach Touched...” to “Find Touched
and attach it...”.)
MYSTIQUE’S MANIPULATIONS (#26)
Should read: “When Defeated: The defeating player
searches the encounter deck and discard pile for a copy
of the Misled treachery and shuffles it into their deck.”
(Specified who should resolve the ability.)
BONEBREAKER (#31)
Should read: “Forced Response: After Bonebreaker
engages you, take 1 indirect damage for each Reaver minion
engaged with you.” (Changed “Forced Interrupt” to
“Forced Response”.)
MOJOMANIA SCENARIO PACK
THE SEARCH FOR SPIRAL (#16)
Should read: “Hero Action: Take 2 damage → remove
3 threat from here.” (Added cost arrow.)
FETCH QUEST (#45)
Should read: “When Defeated: In player order, each player
may search their deck for a card and play that card, ignoring
its resource cost. (Shuffle.)” (Replaced “for free” with
“ignoring its resource cost”.)
NEXT EVOLUTION EXPANSION
INHIBITOR COLLAR (#92)
Should read: “Action: Choose to either exhaust a character
you control or take 3 damage → discard this card. Any
player can do this.” (Changed reminder text to rules text.)
X-23 HERO PACK
FRONT LINE SPECIALIST (#36)
Should read: “Your identity gets +4 hit points.” (Changed
“hero” to “identity”.)
DEADPOOL HERO PACK
‘POOL-IZED (#41)
Should read: “When Revealed: Attach to the ally with the
highest cost without ‘Pool-ized attached. Attached ally
engages its controller. Otherwise, this card gains surge.”
(Added “Attached ally engages its controller.”)
AGE OF APOCALYPSE EXPANSION
SUIT UP (#17)
Should read: “Alter-Ego Action: Search your deck and
discard pile for an ally and an upgrade that can be attached
to an ally. Add them to your hand.” (Changed “can be
attached to that ally” to “can be attached to an ally”.)
MISSION TEAM (#171A)
The first bullet should read: “Reduce the cost of the next
ally played to the mission this phase by 2.” (Added “this
phase”.)
NIGHTCRAWLER HERO PACK
ROGUE (#12)
Should read: “Action: Deal 1 damage to another friendly
character → until the end of the round, Rogue gains each of
that character’s Traits and adds that character’s base THW
and ATK to her matching powers. (Limit once per round.)”
(Changed “printed” to “base”.)
TWEEDLEDOPE (#37)
Removed the star icon () from this card’s boost field.
MAGNETO HERO PACK
MAGNETIC MISSILE (#10)
Should read: “Hero Action: Discard a minion with Wrapped
in Metal attached. Then, deal 5 damage to an enemy and
stun it.” (Changed cost arrow to “Then”.)
DEFT FOCUS (#23)
Classification should be “Basic” instead of “Protection.”
EXODUS (#28)
Should read: “Forced Response: After Exodus attacks you,
discard cards from the top of your deck equal to his total
ATK for that attack.” (Added “for that attack”.)
AGENTS OF S.H.I.E.L.D. EXPANSION
RADIATION EXPOSURE (#171A)
The “SCH” modifier on this card should be a “THW”
modifier.
MACH-IV (#156)
Should read: “Each character without the Aerial trait cannot
defend against MACH-IV’s attacks.” (Changed “make basic
defenses” to “defend”.)
69 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
SILK HERO PACK
EIDETIC MEMORY (#8)
Should read: “Interrupt: When you reveal a card from the
same encounter set as a card tucked under your identity,
exhaust Eidetic Memory → swap those cards. Reveal the
card that had been tucked under your identity instead.”
(Changed “Silk” to “your identity”.)
WINTER SOLDIER HERO PACK
S.H.I.E.L.D. DEPUTY (#33)
Should read: “Attach to a friendly character. Max 1 per
character.” (Added “Max 1 per character.”)
TRICKSTER TAKEOVER SCENARIO
PACK
RULEBOOK PG. 19, SWAPPING AVATARS OF
LOKI, PARAGRAPH 1
Should read: “When a card effect instructs the players to
swap an Avatar of Loki villain or Fading Figment with a random
set-aside Avatar of Loki villain, they should replace the villain in
play with one of the other set-aside versions of the Avatar of
Loki villain.” (Rewritten to apply section’s rules to swapping a
Fading Figment with an Avatar of Loki villain.)
CIVIL WAR EXPANSION
YELLOW JACKET (#19)
Title should read “Yellowjacket”.
Text should read: “Response: After Yellowjacket enters
play, search the top 5 cards of your deck for an upgrade
and add it to your hand.” (Changed “Yellow Jacket” to
“Yellowjacket”.)
YELLOW JACKET (#73)
Title should read “Yellowjacket”.
ENERGY CHANNEL (#98)
Should read: “Forced Response: After a leader, hero, or ally
attacks Captain Marvel, place 1 energy counter here. Then,
if there are at least 4 energy counters here, remove all of
them and Captain Marvel attacks that character. This attack
gains overkill.” (Changed “→” to “and”.)
SYNTHEZOID SMACKDOWN
SCENARIO PACK
MOON KNIGHT (#65)
Should read: “When Revealed: Resolve the “When
Revealed” ability of the topmost treachery in the encounter
discard pile. (Limit once per phase.)” (Added “(Limit once
per phase.)”)
PHASED OUT (#76)
Should read: “Action: Choose an attachment on the enemy
leader with the text ‘Hero Action’ or ‘Hero Response’ and
discard it.” (Changed “Hero Interrupt” to “Hero Action.”)
WONDER MAN HERO PACK
IONIC PHYSIOLOGY (#2)
Should read: “Response: After you play an event with a
printed  resource, tuck that event from your discard pile
under this card. Then, heal 1 damage from your identity.”
(Changed cost arrow to “Then”.)
70 Ru l e s Re f eren c e
APPENDIX VI: GAME
ENVIRONMENTS (BETA)
When preparing for a game, a group of players may choose
a game environment for that game, or they may decide to
allow each player to choose their own environment for that
game. The game environment establishes which Marvel
Champions products can be used during player deck
customization for that game. By choosing to use a smaller
environment, players can test their creativity and skill by
customizing their player decks using a smaller pool of player
cards.
To play in a game environment, a player customizes their
deck using only player cards included in the products
designated by that environment. This includes the choice of
which hero to play as.
A group may choose to play any scenario with any modular
encounter sets, regardless of the chosen environment(s).
There are three types of environments:
CURRENT ENVIRONMENT
The Current Environment consists of the most recent
products released for Marvel Champions, in addition to the
core set.
The Current Environment includes the following products:
• The Marvel Champions: The Card Game core set
• Expansions
» The Age of Apocalypse campaign expansion
» The Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. campaign expansion
» The Civil War custom scenario expansion
» The Fear No Evil campaign expansion
(upon release)
• Hero Packs
» Iceman Hero Pack
» Jubilee Hero Pack
» Nightcrawler Hero Pack
» Magneto Hero Pack
» Black Panther Hero Pack
» Silk Hero Pack
» Falcon Hero Pack
» Winter Soldier Hero Pack
» Wonder Man Hero Pack
» Hercules Hero Pack
• All products not listed above that were released
since the most recent version of this document was
published (v1.8, Jul 2026).
LEGACY ENVIRONMENT
The Legacy Environment consists of all Marvel Champions
products. To play in the Legacy Environment, a player
customizes their deck using player cards from any product
in their collection.
LIMITED ENVIRONMENT
A limited environment allows a player who owns a number
of older products to continue to play with those products
while still reaping the benefits of playing within a smaller
environment. To play in a Limited Environment, a player
customizes their deck using cards from:
• The Marvel Champions: The Card Game core set
• Up to 3 campaign and/or custom scenario expansions
• Up to 4 hero packs
While any expansion or hero pack may be chosen for a
Limited Environment (and finding creative combinations
of products from which to build could be an enjoyable
experience for deckbuilding enthusiasts), a number
of past Marvel Champions products were developed
together in waves. As a starting point for creating a Limited
Environment, we recommend selecting three waves
of related products to explore the synergies between
those cards, and branching out to other, more creative
combinations only after growing more familiar with the
cardpool.
The waves released as of the publication of this document
are:
1. The Captain America hero pack, the Ms. Marvel Hero
Pack, the Thor Hero Pack, the Black Widow Hero Pack,
the Doctor Strange Hero Pack, and the Hulk Hero Pack.
2. The Rise of Red Skull campaign expansion, the Ant-Man
Hero Pack, the Wasp Hero Pack, the Quicksilver Hero
Pack, and the Scarlet Witch Hero Pack.
3. The Galaxy’s Most Wanted campaign expansion, the
Star-Lord Hero Pack, the Gamora Hero Pack, the Drax
Hero Pack, and the Venom Hero Pack.
4. The Mad Titan’s Shadow campaign expansion, the
Nebula Hero Pack, the War Machine Hero Pack, the
Valkyrie Hero Pack, and the Vision Hero Pack.
5. The Sinister Motives campaign expansion, the Nova
Hero Pack, the Ironheart Hero Pack, the Spider-Ham
Hero Pack, and the SP//dr Hero Pack.
6. The Mutant Genesis campaign expansion, the Cyclops
Hero Pack, the Phoenix Hero Pack, the Wolverine Hero
Pack, the Storm Hero Pack, the Gambit Hero Pack, and
the Rogue Hero Pack.
7. The NeXt Evolution campaign expansion, the Psylocke
Hero Pack, the Angel Hero Pack, the X-23 Hero Pack,
and the Deadpool Hero Pack.
8. The Age of Apocalypse campaign expansion, the
Iceman Hero Pack, the Jubilee Hero Pack, the
Nightcrawler Hero Pack, and the Magneto Hero Pack.
9. The Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. campaign expansion, the
Black Panther Hero Pack, the Silk Hero Pack, the Falcon
Hero Pack, and the Winter Soldier Hero Pack.
10. The Civil War custom scenario expansion, the Wonder
Man Hero Pack, and the Hercules Hero Pack.
71 Ru l e s Re f eren c e